So there's an enormous amount of
pressure on the Fed right now that
cannot be ignored.
>> This is the toughest position the Fed
has basically ever been in.
>> This is a Fed that's setting up to look
through maybe multiple months of some
stronger inflation data.
>> There's a big story in inflation that
needs to be spelled out.
>> We're getting really excited about a cut
in September when we've got a lot of
data still to come. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, turmoil at the Fed. Equity
markets are inching lower and long bond
yields inching higher as President
Donald Trump attempts to fire Fed
Governor Lisa Cook. Governor Cook is
firing back, insisting the president
doesn't have the authority. The pressure
keeps on building.
>> I think it's so notable that it's
turmoil at the Fed to your point, but
not turmoil in these markets. The
language you use, John, inching for now.
It is a market and the words of man
group that I was speaking to earlier
that is just basically trading this as
of as if the Fed is going to be more
dovish. The Fed has already turned more
dovish. Powell seems to have pivoted.
Cook herself was leaning more dovish.
They have Steven Myron. What if this is
more than just about trying to get cuts
from the Fed? The president believes
he's got the authority to fire the
governor of the Federal Reserve.
Governor Cook believes that he doesn't.
There's a process that's got to play out
here. This is going to take potentially
a long, long time. In the meantime,
we've got to think about institutional
credibility and resilience. I go back to
Steven Moore 2019. Nominated for a
position on the Federal Reserve Board.
Republican Senate didn't even take it
up. Had to withdraw the nomination.
You've got to remember here that the
list we've got from the Federal Reserve
for the Federal Reserve chair at the
moment is quite credible. from the
president of the United States and
Secretary Scott Besson. And if we do get
further down the line and we do have to
replace Governor Cook and there's a lot
of there, who's to say that it's going
to be someone that scares this market?
>> I think that is incredibly valid and
potentially part of the reason why the
market hasn't been moving. Still,
there's been a lot of commentary out
there that some of the authority of the
Fed is being bent. Certainly not broken.
But if you just get those inching away
at the margins, do we all become boiling
frogs in the pot? Do we all sudden
become blind to when you do have a Fed
that's been remade that is more willing
to do things like potentially try to
tweak at the margin what the long end of
the curve is doing to get mortgage rates
done. Is that disaster for this market?
Maybe not. But it is small things
stacked on top of each other.
>> We are testing the limits of
institutional resilience. That's for
sure. You've picked up on the long end
of the curve. I'm right there with you.
Bond yields are a little bit higher this
morning by four basis points. But it's
just how this curve continues to evolve.
Steeper, steeper, steeper.
>> Yeah. And it's notable that this morning
it's also happening with a front end
that is rallying again. It's a market
that is assuming that you're going to
get a more dovish Fed with the recent
changes. But what happens if you get a
dovish Fed and you get a long end that
sells off? We had this previously and I
should say after Powell speech at
Jackson Hole, the long end wasn't too
bothered. So, you get a change this time
around. And the question becomes, will
Trump actually get what he wants? Even
if he makes the Fed more dovish, this
market would suggest not.
>> It's a question we'll ask a lot this
morning. Dramatic headlines, very muted
price action so far. Equity futures down
by not even a tenth of 1% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Peter Cher Academy as the president says
he's firing Fed Governor Lisa Kirk.
Street coach, governor of Abedine joins
us on the future of Fed independence.
and Marissa Adams of HSBC on this week's
trade headlines. We begin this hour with
our top story. President Donald Trump
making a move to fire Fed Governor Lisa
Kirk. Amarie joins us now from
Washington with more. Morning, Amory.
>> Good morning, John. A significant
development overnight as we've seen the
president not just talk about and this
rhetoric that he wants to ou Governor
Cook, but putting out a letter that he
says he has caused to remove her.
Jonathan, when it comes to cause in the
Federal Reserve Act, this would mean
malfcence uh derelction of duty while in
office, I'm sure you've seen the
statement from Governor Cook. She says
she is going to fight this. She says no
cause exists and he has no authority to
do so. So, as you correctly said at the
top of the program, there is a process
that now needs to take place. We have
seen Lisa Cook retain a lawyer for this.
And I would go back to the signal we
received from this Supreme Court in May.
It basically signaled that officials at
an institution like the Federal Reserve
have more cover. This is the key quote
from that Supreme Court talking about
the Fed is it a uniquely structured
quasi private entity that follows in the
distinct historical tradition of the
first and second banks of the United
States. Basically saying that when it
comes to officials at the Federal
Reserve, when it comes to this
presidency, they are going to be
potentially out of reach. Amarie with
the latest down in Washington DC.
Amarie, we'll have more throughout the
next hour and beyond. Joining us now
around the table here in New York City,
Peter Cheer of Academy Securities. Pete,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> We talked about it at the top, me and
Danny. We've got some very dramatic
headlines, some very muted price action.
What explains the difference between the
two?
>> One, I think we've all seen kind of this
progression to the Fed being more
doubbish anyways. So whether this
changes much, I don't know. But I think
the market might be getting wrong, and
I'm still not quite there yet myself, is
we should stop fixating on rate cuts.
what this means for rate cuts. I think
what is this going to do for the longer
end of the curve and what is the Fed and
the Treasury Department going to do to
prevent, you know, kind of a repeat of
last September. And I think that's what
the market's got to start thinking about
is everyone's well aware that last
September they cut rates, long ends
rose, we're getting this kind of
constant steepening. I think 230s are
now at the steepest level they've been
in a while. The Fed's not silly.
Besson's not silly, right? They've got
to be looking at this. I expect to see a
little bit more done to control the long
end of the yield curve this time and
maybe even help the mortgage market cuz
again this administration has talked you
know bestin had his 333 strategy is
about getting tens below 3% we haven't
made a lot of progress there I think
that's next on the agenda
>> 493 on 30s what does corrective action
look like
>> you know I I think people are going to
push that higher I think people are you
know very concerned about a Fed that all
of a sudden doesn't behave maybe as we
thought I think that's going to turn out
to be a mistake I think a lot is going
to be done whether the Treasury reduces
issuance Whether we get an operation
twist, whether we get chatter about
maybe we go back to buying mortgages out
of the Fed and switching some of their
portfolio mix around, I think there's
going to be a lot done to try and
control that. I think by the end of the
year we're at 450 on 30s, maybe even 425
and I do think we get back below 4% on
10.
>> Is that going to be a willing Fed that
does something like that or how does it
change to allow that process to take
place?
>> Well, I guess probably the more changes
that occur within the Fed, the more
willing it'll be to do that. And again,
I think Besson has a bunch of control of
what he can do in terms of issuance on
the Treasury side. So I do think it's
going to be a more, you know,
intertwined Fed and Treasury where they
do work a little bit together. Again, if
you kind of think about it, we saw
during the, you know, GFC or whatever,
post GFC and postco controlling yields
through the short end is kind of a very
inefficient way to get anything done,
right? It doesn't translate well to the
market. You know, the average mortgage,
everyone during, you know, CO went
long-term. The well, except for the US
government. The US government was the
only one who borrowed short-term, but
corporations did it, individuals did it.
So fiddling around with short end
doesn't help that much anymore, I think.
>> So all of this is happening and you say
the wrong concentration is about how
dovish or whether the Fed will cut. But
Peter, what does this do to the data we
are about to get over the next month?
Just how crucial does a data release
become for CPI and unemployment,
especially if those things come in hot?
>> You know, and I have no idea what this
jobs number is going to come in. I
thought I go back to July 3rd. I was on
a plane coming back. I thought June data
was going to be weak. Turned out strong.
Month later we found out it actually was
weak. So I think there's this degree of
randomness that's showing up in all the
data. So I'm not even sure anymore how
the market's going to trust whether we
get a strong jobs report on September.
You would think a month ago we would
have sold off hard on yields because oh
now the Fed can't cut. I don't know that
that's going to happen. So I I feel the
data is going to be noisy and then we're
going to forget it within hours now and
go back to no this Fed's probably going
to be cutting because that's the path
we're on. Where does that leave foreign
exchange? Put everything you've just
said together, the various points you've
made, and for me at least listening to
you, it screams weaker dollar.
>> I'm exactly there, right? If you're kind
of pushing on all these other things,
you know, like the balloon, right? The
bubble's got to go somewhere. So, I
think it's going to be continued
weakness in the dollar. I think you'll
see DXY, it's a little bit weaker today.
I think that continues lower and lower
because all these things that we would
do, I think will be anti-doll, anti-
kind of, you know, wanting people to
truly invest here. So bonds one, FX2,
where's the leaf stocks?
>> You know, I think we may meander along
right now. I think what I'm starting to
look to is I want to own I think the
small caps. I think they should benefit
from some of this. And I feel we've had
this huge run on the data and the AI.
And you know, we are going to continue
to grow on data and AI. Data centers,
people want that. Like it's weird, but
it's starting to feel to me like we are
paying 2030 prices for 2025 technology.
And it reminds me a lot when we went
through the broadband and fiber
buildout. The companies were all
superstars. They were doing great. They
all got in trouble because there was a
bit of an overbuild. Then eventually all
that ca, you know, fiber got used and
the companies did well. And I feel like
we might be at that tipping point where
I think you mentioned on the show
earlier, right? If you spend $10
billion, your stock goes up by 20
billion. So why wouldn't you just spend
if you start getting a different
reaction function? And weirdly enough, I
still wind up liking Chinese stocks. And
it seems so crazy that we're having all
this fight with China. We talk about all
the time, China this, China that,
China's economy is weak. Yet FXI has
outperformed the NASDAQ 100 this year,
which seems bizarre. And I think that
can continue as China continues to try
and wade through this, you know, tariff
policy and they have been consistent in
their messaging. I they're consistent in
what their plan is, and it's been
rewarding shareholders bizarrely. just
on the idea of stocks and any sort of
rotation we might have. Peter, why be
anything other than completely bullish
on the entirety of the market if we are
getting cuts,
>> you know, and maybe I've got to, you
know, just get into that, but it feels
like we've had this runup already in
stocks, right? We've been running up a
little bit in anticipation of all these
cuts. And to me, you guys go back, it's
the AI spend has been kind of the
biggest surprise I think in the economy
this year. We we can talk about tariff
pauses, all those things that all helped
the market along, but to me the big
thing was just how consistent the AI
spending was that every single
corporation in America felt that no
matter the state of the economy, we want
to be into AI because we want to be more
efficient. And if that esc
is going to be the drag on stocks and
the tariff stuff, you know, this is
going to take, we've been talking about
months or quarters to play out. I think
you start finally start seeing some of
the negatives on tariffs coming through
in the next month, next few months.
>> Even so, even with all the hype around
AI, it's probably worth taking a step
back and realizing that the NASDAQ has
underperformed European stocks still
this year. There has been somewhat
slightly of a rotation to international
stocks that dominated the start of the
year. That noise has quieted down, but
Peter, to what degree is that trade
still alive?
>> So, I think Europe to me seems a bit
overplayed. They're going through their
own issues. They've got what's going on
now. I don't think they're going to be
massive beneficiaries from, you know,
peace with Russia, Ukraine. I think it
will help, but it's not going to turn
their economies around. That again, I it
seems bizarre to me to think that
Chinese stocks continue to outperform,
but that's where I'm leading. I see that
as the economy that's trying to
function. They've got a plan. Europe to
me it's you know they coalesed a little
bit with you know Russia Ukraine with
NATO spending but again that seems to be
you know breaking a little bit apart
again. So I I I think US will actually
probably outperform Europe for the rest
of the year. Having said that the dollar
is the problem there. I think it's just
dollar weakness is going to hurt.
>> Europe's super messy. Go through the
continent right now. We always talk
about Europe as just some sort of one
thing one monolith but Europe's a mess.
You've got countries that have got
fiscal space. Germany, others that don't
have any. The UK, France, and France are
the epicenter of the price action in
Europe this morning.
>> Yeah, France really under pain. But if
anything, it just really highlights that
it feels like the back half of this year
that fiscal dominance is the story. You
have France that's trying to cut the
budget, unable to do so. You have also
Japan that's facing higher yields. And
by the way, these are all countries
whose central banks started QT at the
end of last year. They're really coming
under pressure now.
>> Multi-deade highs for some of those bond
yields. Peter, it's good to see you as
always. Peter chair of Academy
Securities. Lots of drama state side,
but very muted price action. The theme
so far this morning on Bloomberg TV.
Equity futures negative by not even a
tenth of 1% with an update on stories
elsewhere and worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hey yara. Hi John. We start with
President Trump moving to oust Fed
Governor Lisa Cook over claims that she
falsified mortgage documents. Cook
responded saying that Trump has no
authority to fire her and that she won't
step down. The move represents a
significant escalation of the
president's battle against the Fed,
which he says is taking too long to
lower interest rates. Meanwhile, China
is sending a top trade negotiator to
Washington this week. A move that
signals talks are progressing. The vice
commerce minister will meet with trade
and Treasury representatives Thursday
and Friday. The move comes after both
sides extended their pause on higher
tariffs through early November. And Elon
Musk is suing Apple and Open AAI,
accusing them of colluding to block
rivals in the artificial intelligence
market. In a federal lawsuit, Musk's X
and X AI claim Apple's integration of
ChatGpt into iPhones gives it an unfair
monopoly and deprivives consumers of
choice. Open AAI dismiss the case as
harassment. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yihara a little bit later this
hour. Up next on the program, Trump and
Kirk facing G.
>> Trump, you're going to fire Lisa Cook.
He fed governor over her if she doesn't
resign. You know, she's she what she did
was bad. So, I'll fire her if she
doesn't resign.
>> And that's exactly what he did. Up next
on the program, Scott Lindum of the Ko
Institute live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Hi from New York City. Welcome to the
program. No drama whatsoever so far this
morning in the market. We're down just
0.05% on the S&P. The NASDAQ totally
unchanged. If we turn to the bond
market, 2-year, 10 year, 30 year, this
is how things are shaping up. Bond
yields creeping higher at the long end
of the curve up by four basis points,
the 490, 285. Down at the front end of
the curve, we're down by two basis
points, the 370. The distance between
the two getting longer, the spread
getting wider, the curve getting
steeper. That's the theme so far this
morning.
>> 530 is the steepest since 2021. And it
is worth pointing out that this has been
a move that's been occurring for some
time now. It didn't change with today.
If anything, this speeds it up. We're
just talking to Peter Shear about this
idea. What if we do get a Fed that more
closely works together with the Treasury
that tries to change the steepness of
this yield curve if you do have cuts
that are met by higher rates, especially
if there are questions of independence.
It underscores already again a move
that's been undergoing.
>> Just a little bit more fuel for that
trade this morning. and surveillance
this morning. Trump and Kirk facing
Goff,
>> you going to fire Lisa Cook, the Fed
governor, over her mortgage?
>> If she doesn't resign, you know, she's
she what she did was bad. So, I'll fire
her if she doesn't resign.
>> That was Friday. Here's the latest this
morning. President Trump announcing he's
seeking to remove Federal Reserve
Governor Lisa Kirk from her position due
to allegations she committed mortgage
fraud. Kirk responding, saying the
president has no cause to do so and that
she would not be resigning. Bloomberg
Sam Marie joins us now from DC with
more. Hey Marie,
>> good morning John. Significant
escalation when it comes to the
president and this standoff with
Governor Lisa Cook. This really stems
from FH FA Director Bill Py talking
about the fact that they think she
committed mortgage fraud. These are
allegations. The president's letter last
night, Jonathan, saying the American
people must be able to have full
confidence in the honesty of the members
entrusted in setting policy and
overseeing the Federal Reserve. We're
now joined by Scott Lindicum of the Kato
Institute. He works on general economics
and trade. Scott, thank you so much for
joining us this morning. Just your
reaction to this headline overnight. Uh
I'm can't say I'm surprised uh given the
runup and some of the statements from
the Trump administration already. Uh but
uh look, that doesn't mean that this
isn't a significant move. Um you know
the independence of the Fed is uh
extremely important for US monetary
policy and the US economy. Uh we at you
know at Kato and elsewhere have have
always been concerned about
politicization of the Fed but this is
now going in the wrong direction right
it is pushing us more towards uh
politicized monetary policy. Um and
quite frankly, uh you know, it's not
something that appears justified by the
numbers in terms of absolutely
necessitating some sort of rate cut.
When you look at core CPI still above
three, flash PMI last week showing uh
significant price pressures, uh the idea
that uh you know, this is just uh a
recalcitrant Fed fighting the
president's uh whims or or needs is uh
is you know, not really held up in the
data.
>> Does the market actually believe it yet?
How do you see this playing out, this
fight between Governor Cook and the
president of the United States?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think the some of uh the
calmness in the market probably stems
from the fact that it's not 100% clear
that they can do this. Uh Cook and her
legal team saying they're going to fight
it. Uh and that, you know, it appears to
be, I think, giving some people some
thoughts that, you know, maybe the the
independence, the Fed's still intact.
But that being said, uh look, it it this
Trump is a persistent guy. We know this
and uh I don't think we should be too
confident that this is the this is going
away anytime soon. Regardless of how
this particular spat turns out,
>> whether it's the Fed or whether it's
trade, we'd like to see the president of
United States put his thumb on the
scale. He takes an interventionist
approach. You wrote about that this week
in the Washington Post. When it comes to
Intel, what kind of president do you see
Trump setting for future
administrations?
>> Well, it's a lot of troubling precedent.
I mean beyond the pressuring the Fed uh
now you know you have the state taking
uh big stakes in private companies like
Intel uh not during uh the a great
recession or wartime but in peace time
and doing it uh clear under pretty clear
uh pressure and coercion uh from the
oval office. Uh, of course you have all
the import substitution and tariffs and
uh uncertainty in trade deals uh which
is also all executive power as well. Um,
you know, it makes you wonder where the
heck Congress is all in this. But it
also uh makes you think what the next
president's going to be able to do. you
know, Bernie Sanders was cheering uh
Trump's intel move. Uh and you could
very well have a Democratic president
that picks up these very same precedents
and pushes even further into an
interventionist executive branch acting
unilaterally. And that's of course uh
going to raise serious issues, serious
problems for the health of the US
economy.
>> Well, the president also said he would
be interested in maybe striking more
deals like this. Are there companies
that you're looking at that potentially
we can see a similar approach from this
White House?
>> Yeah, you know, as I wrote in the post,
if any company that's taken subsidies
from the US government and happens to be
located in a strategic industry by the
executive branch's definition, uh should
be a little bit concerned. Uh the fact
is that we now have national security
investigations
uh in the trade space on a whole lot of
products, not just chips and steel and
aluminum and others. We've already seen
a golden share for US steel. We've
already seen investments in uh MP
materials which is in the rare earth
space. So I think there's no question
that uh companies that have some sort of
dealings with the US government uh in
these strategic industries uh may be the
nets to get a call from the Oval Office.
>> Trump has talked about building though a
US sovereign wealth fund. Is that what
all of this is leading towards? Well,
NEC Director Kevin Hassid basically said
as much yesterday, that they're using a
lot of the industrial policy that was
implemented during the Biden years
through the inflation reduction act, the
chips act, the infrastructure bill, and
some other executive authorities to
basically reverse engineer a sovereign
wealth fund, which Trump has long
wanted. And this again I think is uh a
concern for companies that have taken
some of these you know ups of trillions
of dollars in government subsidies. Um
but it's also I think you know a
cautionary tale about US industrial
policy generally. How this stuff maybe
starts targeted but tends to have a way
to spiral out of control.
>> Scott, I just want to end on another
truth last night from the president not
getting as much attention what's going
on at the Federal Reserve. He said he's
going to stand up to countries that
attacked US tech because of things like
digital services. What does this mean
for the European Union given the fact
that the president has already struck a
trade deal with them?
>> Well, I think it should tell the
European Union, Japan, and anybody else
that uh these trade deals that they uh
signed over the last couple months uh
are never really finished. Uh you know,
digital services taxes were supposed to
be an issue uh in the EU negotiations.
the Europeans resisted any changes. Uh
they signed this big deal which most
people saw as a pretty huge cave by the
Europeans and here we are just a couple
weeks later and Trump's asking for more.
So you know for those who think
especially in the market who think these
trade deals have settled down the tariff
space uh well uh think again.
>> Yeah that's certainly right. Doesn't
feel like the tariff story is going to
be ending anytime soon. another three
and a half years of maybe some more uh
tit for tat on the trade front. Scott,
thank you so much for joining us. That
was the KO Institute's Scott Lincecome
Jonathan and he makes the point really
what the president is doing whether or
not it's the Fed, whether or not it's
trade, taking a stake in intel, it's the
president that this sets for potentially
future administration and Scott was
pointing to the fact that a senator
Bernie Sanders was actually welcoming
what this White House did when it comes
to intel.
>> Amory with the latest down in
Washington. Amarie, thank you. turning
the Chips Act into an investment
vehicle. We've got a very activist
investor in the White House who's
saying, "We're taking a passive stake."
I'm not so sure about that. Over the
next few months,
>> how can it be when he summoned the CEO
of Intel to the White House just before
this happened? What does it also mean
for other tech companies here in the US?
Does all of a sudden Intel get favored
above them? It raises a lot of
questions, not least of which, to
Scott's point, it takes more than four
years often to build out these types of
businesses and foundaries. So, what
happens when it's a different president
in the White House?
>> We were already worried about a
misallocation of resources in this
sector and beyond. And I imagine that
worry is uh got some extra fuel over the
last few weeks or so. What a month we've
seen through the month of August. Still
got a few more days to go. Equity
futures at the moment on the S&P down by
about a tenth of 1%. Intel down by 0.2
in the pre-market. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Street
Coach Governor of Abedine on President
Trump's push to reshape the Federal
Reserve. Plus, we'll touch base with
Yahara again and get you some morning
movers. Boeing landing a multi-billion
dollar deal from Korean Air. That stock
is up by 0.6%. From New York City this
morning, good morning.
[Music]
It's a bit of a sleepy Tuesday. Lots of
headlines to get through, but check this
out. We're going absolutely nowhere on
the NASDAQ. And likewise on the S&P 500.
The S&P negative by not even a tenth of
1%. If you want some price action,
switch up the board and get to the bond
market. Check out twos, tens, and 30s.
Bond yields higher at the long end,
lower at the front end. This curve is
steeper. We're down 212s to 370. We're
up four on 30s to 493. And Danny, like
you was the thing I was looking at first
thing this morning. This curve getting
steeper.
>> Yeah. Because also the dollar isn't
reacting to the point where even George
Sarah of Deutsche Bank putting out a
note this morning saying he can see no
reasonable way and why the risk wouldn't
be priced in. It is being executed
through the bond market. The nerves of
what it means going forward if you get a
Fed that's cutting. Perhaps it's
reflecting fears of inflation. Maybe
it's reflecting fears of independence.
Maybe it's reflecting an idea that you
could get more action from both the
Treasury and the Fed to try to change
the shape of the bond curve. This is a
Fed that has done QE before. In order to
do that, nothing would necessarily stop
them from doing it again.
>> We'll come back to this 30s this morning
at 493 with 3 hours until the opening
bell 6:30 Eastern time waiting for the
cash open about 3 hours from now with
your morning movers. Here's Yahihra. Hey
yhra.
>> Hi John. As I've said before, Boeing has
emerged as one of the biggest winners of
President Trump's trade wars. And this
news here confirms that we are seeing
shares up about 6/10 of 1% after South
Korea announced $50 billion in deals
with US firms as part of its trade deal.
And included in that is a $ 36 billion
order for more than 100 Boeing jets. Gio
Gio Vernova is also emerging as a winner
in this latest trade deal. And we move
on to shares of the retail trading
platform Interactive Brokers. They are
rising nearly 4% on news that it is
joining the S&P 500 which of course
usually means a rush of demand by index
funds. The changes are set to happen on
Thursday before the market opens and it
is set to replace Walgreens which is
going private. And we end on VFC Corp.
This is the company behind Vans and the
Northace. Shares are rising 2.4% 4% on
some sellside action. Baird is upgrading
it to outperform and lifting its price
target to $20. They're saying the their
shoe brand Vans is finally turning a
corner and the cost cuts that it's been
trying to implement are starting to kick
in, but tariffs are still a major
overhang on this company. When a
reported QQ results back in July, it
said that tariffs could shave off about
60 to 70 million off of its profits this
year. John,
>> our stocks up by 2.4%. Yhara, thank you.
More from Yahara in just a moment. On
our radar this morning, our top story,
President Donald Trump moving to house
Fed Governor Lisa Cook after claims she
falsified mortgage documents. Cook
responding that Trump has no authority
to fire her and that she won't step
down.
>> And the fact that the dollar and
Treasuries didn't dramatic weaken that
there's some nerves about the latest
developments, but not freaking out yet
presumably again on this assumption that
the firing won't stick. She hasn't
formally been charged with anything as
we've been discussing. I think part of
the interesting thing will be to see how
the Fed, the board, the FOMC itself
starts to react from this. This is a
Powell that didn't stand in the way, for
example, of ethical concerns about
Kaplan when he decided to resign or
Rosen. The key is what do they do now?
Do they treat Cook as just a normal
member of the board? What happens if a
lawsuit is hanging and clouding over
this Fed as they continue to make rate
decisions? Again, there's been a lot of
talk about this being a makeorb breakak
moment for the Fed. How did they react
with the Fed, which by the way didn't
want to talk about the politics or
independence at all at Jackson Hole?
>> America is not Turkey. I think we should
point that out too. If you go back to
when Erdogan ousted the central bank
governor a number of years ago, I think
spring 21, something like that. Got to
go back four years. When we saw that
happen, it was immediate. There was no
push back. There was no process. And we
saw the immediate reaction in foreign
exchange as well. The process here is
very different. This is going to take a
long time to play out. Both the
president pushing and pursuing the
ousting of Governor Cook, but also a
legal process over these mortgage fraud
allegations that hasn't still officially
opened.
>> And to your point, even if Cook is gone,
the list of candidates that we've seen
for Fed chair have been very credible.
There's no reason to suggest it wouldn't
be the same. The issue though comes even
if you have someone credible leading the
Fed, let's say you have Waller who has
very clear and articulate reasons for
cutting. Is it a market that looks past
that and says this is an FOMC which is
mostly Trump appointees. It doesn't
matter what why you say why you're
cutting. We think it's for political
reasons and therefore the long end is
unattractive.
>> Mike McKe is standing by. We'll turn to
Mike in just a moment. Want to get you
up to speed on the turmoil over in
Europe. French Prime Minister Francois
Beru calling for a confidence vote that
could topple France's government as soon
as next month. Parties across the
political spectrum saying they'd vote
against the measure which could force
his resignation.
>> Another French government potentially
collapsing only eight months after it
happened with Michelle Barier over only
serving for 90 days. It's important why
this vote is happening though. It's
because Bro wanted fiscal tightening. He
wanted cuts and tax increases, something
of the like of 44 billion. But it's a
populace and a rest of the government
that finds that so unsaavory. But it is
a lot of places that are really
struggling with this that they need to
find fiscal headsp space. But they're
getting push back from other people in
power and populations too. So what
happens? Again, it comes back to the
story that we've been discussing. It is
a bond market that is looking
increasingly unsaavory if they can't
find that.
>> Think this through. What would make it
politically palatable? What would make
it palatable? Not just for the French,
but for the Brits as well, for the UK,
where we've seen a similar dynamic play
out. What would it take for them to vote
for this? They're not going to vote for
this until the alternative is worse.
Just think that through. They're not
going to vote for this until the
alternative is worse. That means it's
not bond yields where they're at right
now. It's bond yields a whole lot higher
from here. Now, I'm not going to be
particularly helpful from here because
I'm going to say I've got no idea when
that's going to happen. But ultimately,
that's how the stage is set here. both
for the UK, for the French, and for
others. With limited fiscal space,
you're not going to get politicians to
vote for what is good for the health of
the fiscal balance sheet in the standing
of France and other countries, too,
until the alternative is viewed as
worse. And we're not there yet.
>> I think it's helpful though to look at
historical examples where this has
happened to get a gauge of that. And of
course, the most recent one is is the UK
and the turmoil there over Liz Truss's
budget. But it's really important to
underscore for all the crying that bond
vigilantes are the ones that can step in
and change policy, it wasn't bond
vigilantes. It was a break for a
mechanical reason having to do with the
pensions in the UK. It wasn't all of a
sudden investors coming in and pushing
back. So saying, "Okay, the alternative
is worse." The alternative hasn't really
presented itself of a bond market that's
shown the ability to do that again,
unless it's a mechanical thing that was
out of the hands of individual traders.
Something somewhere has to break and
right now it hasn't broken. And if
you're worried about what that might
look like, so am I. So am I. Because
they keep tempting fate. They keep
pushing it and keep pushing it. And the
French are not the only ones. Let's turn
to China. Sending a senior trade
negotiator to Washington for talks with
US officials later on this week. The
discussion signaled ongoing progress
following President Trump's extension of
the tariff truce between the two
countries. The Treasury playing this
down.
>> Yeah, they're really playing it down,
saying that the conversations won't be
happening at the highest level. uh that
the US didn't ask for this meeting
either. But it does underscore the
trouble with cankicking. Nothing is
actually resolved and it constantly
leaves the threats of escalation. It
seems that some of this conversation
might surround soybeans. It was a
president that earlier this month said
that China wasn't buying enough. The
president also threatening to say we
need more magnets and we could place as
high as 200% tariffs on China if we
don't get that. So the issues that we
thought maybe were behind us. Again, the
fact that there's been no resolution
with China and it's just extension after
extension does leave escalation as a
threat.
>> It's hard to keep up in Washington at
the moment. Let's turn back to our top
story. President Donald Trump moving to
fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook. Bloomberg's
Mike McKe back from Jackson Huddle joins
us now for more. Mike McKe, you were
expecting this and here it is.
>> Yes, here it is. And the interesting
question this morning is Donald Trump
says Lisa Cook is fired. Lisa Cook says
no, I'm not. Is she fired? We don't know
at this point and we don't know whether
this will go to court or how it will go
to court other than uh if Lisa Cook does
have to go to court, she'll do it on her
own. The Fed uh because this is a
personal issue of the mortgages. The Fed
can't really be involved unless they see
it as a threat to the Fed itself, which
you can make that argument in which case
they can sort of file a f friend of the
court brief to try to stop this. Uh so
we don't know where this goes from here.
this morning.
>> Mike, you were in Jackson Hole. How is
this story playing out at the time just
a few days ago?
>> Well, there were obviously a lot of
people talking about this. This was the
all the talk outside of the uh meeting
room. Everybody concerned with what it
might mean for them. I talked to a
number of Fed officials who say, "Yeah,
I believe they could be coming after me,
too." Uh Austin Goulsby had the best
response. The Chicago Fed president
said, "I've lived here for 30 years and
I paid off my mortgage, so I'm not
worried." but others are to to an
extent. And then you have the tinfoil
hat theory about uh a Trump controlled
board firing all of the regional Fed
bank presidents. And some Fed officials
say they wouldn't put it past the
president to try that. So it's obviously
a matter of concern to everyone there.
>> Mike, I think there has to be a little
bit of push back there on that majority
of the governors pushing back and firing
regional Fed presidents. Mike, you know
Governor Waller, Governor Mickey Bowman.
Well, do they sound like political
puppets that would pursue those kind of
things?
>> No, I don't think that's the case,
particularly with Chris Waller, but uh I
did talk to some people who think that
the pressure on them might get them to
do something like that, but I think that
would be a very long shot. Mike McKe,
stay close, Mike, lots to talk about
throughout this morning. Mike McKe, good
to have him back in New York City. Shrew
coach a governor of Abedine warning that
President Trump's push to fire Fed
governor Lisa Cook could feed into
higher term premier across US treasuries
and undermine the US dollar. Shri joins
us now for more. Shri, good morning. Are
you seeing some limited signs of that so
far this morning?
>> I think so. We're seeing over the last
few days actually we've seen you know
this trend towards steeper curves. Um so
what we saw on Friday was obviously a
response to the Jackson Hall. Now today
we are starting to see the impact of
this um announcement by President Trump
and that's set to be a long ongoing
process. This is not an overnight issue.
This is something that we've seen is
quite a pivotal moment where President
Trump has been talking about firing
officials and taking control of greater
control over the Fed. Now he's actually
trying to do that. He's attempting to do
that. And as we've already heard, this
will be a long process that goes through
the courts. Um, this is a lot of
pressure on Governor Cook over the
coming weeks, obviously. Um, now what
we're also seeing is that if Governor
Cook is pressured to resign or
eventually fired, what does that mean
for the Fed? It tips the balance um from
um a fairly balanced and nuanced Fed
towards a doubbish majority. It's most
likely that the replacement for Governor
Cook is going to be another dove. And
we've seen this public sort of pressure
on the Fed, whether it's Treasury
Secretary Bessend publicly calling for a
50 basis point cut or this push for um
getting Stefan Moran into place very
quickly and pushing that through the
Senate. So there is a lot of moving
parts here that are starting to suggest
that the Fed is under a lot of pressure
in terms of the future policy path. Now
there is no way that the bond market
will completely ignore this. I think at
the moment it's a case of well what's
actually happening? Is this possible in
the courts? There are checks and
balances in terms of the Fed. This is
very diff different to cabinet members.
Um there are checks and balances here
and it's an ongoing process. So I think
at the moment stability in the markets
could literally be a case of well let's
see what's actually happening here. But
longer term this does signal higher risk
premium um if there is a threat to Fed
independence and Fred credibility that
could be a problem for the longer end of
the yield curve.
>> Sh though if we do have a Governor Cook
that leaves and is replaced with someone
who is dovish what difference would that
actually make? In fact, it was a
Governor Cook who before this all kicked
off had been expressing concerns about
the labor market and herself been
leaning more dovish.
>> That that is true. That is a case. But
and I think what's been interesting is
this shift from Chair Powell himself um
prior to Jackson Hull on Friday, we had
been seeing greater emphasis on the
inflationary pressures coming through
tariffs. Now there was a distinct shift
from Powell himself. So again that could
be there is some speculation whether
there this is due to political pressure
and we are seeing that there is some
weakness in in the data being signaled
in payrolls but that was quite a sudden
shift in his tone and in his
communication.
So what we are seeing is that in the
next few weeks I think it could be quite
critical to watch the key data that's
coming out. Um we have payrolls
obviously um in a in a week's time we
have benchmark NFP revisions as well um
going taking the preliminary revisions
for March 2025 and the final revisions
for the year before. So these will be
quite important alongside the CPI print.
So this is still from the messaging on
Friday. We still saw data dependence
although the the nuance has shifted
quite quite quickly towards the labor
market dynamic. So now the labor market
is the swing factor rather than
inflation. They haven't completely
closed the door on a hold. I would like
to point out they have highlighted
chairp did continue to highlight that
the tariff impact will filter through
into inflation but now the emphasis is
that it will be over time staggered
across time and sectors but also that it
is more of a price level shift. Now
obviously for the Fed if this filters
through into inflation expectations then
that takes on a different turn but
they're not mentioning that they're not
talking about that too much. It's more
of a focus on the labor market and I
think that shift in tone is very
interesting to watch as well.
>> Hey Shri, thanks for making time for us.
Appreciate it and for explaining your
view. Shri Kocha govern there of Abedine
on this bond market and a little bit
more 30-year bond yields this morning at
four basis points 493 with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Back with us here's Yahira.ra.
Hey yra.
>> Hi John. President Trump says Vladimir
Putin's personal dislike of Ukraine's
Vladimir Zalinski is stalling a meeting
between the two leaders. The White House
previously said Putin agreed to a
meeting with the Ukrainian president and
that was and that planning was underway,
but the Kremlin never confirmed their
commitment and no summit has yet been
scheduled. Meanwhile, back here in the
US, President Trump has called Chicago a
mess and threatened to tap the National
Guard to tackle crime in the city,
expanding his crime crackdown beyond
Washington DC. Chicago's mayor said
Trump's plan is unconstitutional and a
threat to democracy and noted that
murders in the city have fallen to the
lowest in more than a decade. And I
mentioned this story earlier. Korean
Airlines plans to order more than 100
Boeing jets worth more than $36 billion.
That's in addition to a $13 billion with
GE Aerospace. Korea's air Korea Airs CEO
is hailing the deal as a quote pivotal
moment in the airlines plans to
modernize its fleet. The announcement
follows the South Korean president's
visits to the visit to the White House
yesterday. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, more trade talks on the way. I
spoke to Presidency fairly recently and
at some point probably during this year
or shortly thereafter we'll go to China.
In terms of playing the cards, we have
we have much bigger and better cards
than they do.
>> But with that being said, I think we
have a great relationship.
>> That conversation up next with Marissa
Adams of HSBC.
[Music]
Equities
at the moment, a little changed on the
S&P 500 and on the NASDAQ 100. In the
bond market, a little bit of change.
Bond yields are higher at the long end
of the curve. Mike McKe put it well. The
president says Governor Cook is fired
and Governor Cook says she's not. So,
where does that leave things?
>> It leaves things hanging in limbo and
potentially a lawsuit that hangs over
this Fed as they try to do their duffish
pivot. Again, it feels ridiculous. We
got this whole Jackson Hole speech where
independence wasn't mentioned at all and
3 days later you have a president
attempting to fire a Federal Reserve
governor.
>> It was certainly the elephant in the
room at the time. Amar's on the ground
in Washington. More from AMH later on
this morning. Plus, don't miss this. The
former Fed vice chair Le Brainer joining
us at about 8:15 Eastern time. And the
Savanas this morning. More trade talks
on the way.
I spoke to President Xi fairly recently
and at some point probably during this
year or shortly thereafter we'll go to
China and I think we're going to see a
magnificent site. It's a it's a great
country in terms of playing the cards.
We have we have much bigger and better
cards than they do.
>> But with that being said, I think we
have a great relationship. So here's the
latest this morning. China sending it
senior trade negotiator to Washington
for talks this week. Key trade deadlines
also looming with 50% tariffs on India
beginning tomorrow followed by the end
of the dimminimous exemptions on Friday.
To discuss is Marissa Adams of HSBC.
Marissa, welcome back to the program. So
this is where things stand. More
deadlines for trade negotiations. We've
also got to find out whether these
tariffs actually stand up to legal
scrutiny in the coming days. And with
that in mind, we're all wondering what
is the approach from corporations,
Marissa, that you speak to every single
day. Are they doing short-term fixes or
are they beginning to implement
long-term strategies?
>> Thanks, Jonathan, and thanks, Danny, for
having me again this morning. So, we
continue to have a lot of conversations
with our clients and corporates both
here in Europe and uh across the
Americas, in particular in the United
States. And corporates are still very
much in a wait and watch mode in terms
of long-term investment. And we think
that that's only so much longer they can
do that to hold off on those
investments. Now what they've continued
to do is to bring shipments forward
particularly in the consumer goods
sector. We saw a lot of the industrial
uh shipments come forward earlier in the
year but in the consumer sector to give
you an example the port of Los Angeles
which is one of the largest uh ports for
imports into the United States had its
record uh month ever uh in July. So
really they are continuing to take those
shortterm moves but soon they will need
to start looking at the longerterm
investments. They are also starting to
look the corporates that I'd say are
very much best-in-class and leading at
both new demand markets, but also taking
a look again at their supply chain
mapping to really see where there's
opportunities to grow even uh in an
uncertain environment before the tariffs
actually are finalized.
>> So, as they move to do that, they now
face an increased level of bureaucracy,
more paperwork, trying to figure out
what custom charges look like. Marissa,
beyond just higher prices for things,
what level of friction has been
introduced to the system and how are
companies c uh coping with that?
>> And I I I'm so excited that you
mentioned the word friction because we
look at the dimminimous rules which
which you flashed on the headline uh
coming up on Friday. Uh the dimminimous
rules just as a bit of a reminder $800
is what the US has said you don't have
to previously have to go through customs
duties. Uh similar countries have
actually been a lot lower. So the UK is
£135, the European Union £150 euros and
actually they're looking to eliminate
that completely as well. But that
accounts for almost 1.4 trillion
packages a day coming in to direct to
consumers and not always direct to
consumers, also through corporates.
About four uh million packages each day.
The question is is that if you have to
put all of those through a process
firstly uh can US Customs and Border
Protection process that in the same
efficiency from a manner perspective but
also a lot of these businesses
particularly under that value will never
have had to go through a customs
process. So it is likely to introduce
quite a bit of friction uh and also you
know a a lesser customer experience. But
for a lot of these businesses too that
are really low margin uh any sort of
change in both the friction in terms of
the time of processing but also the
additional cost can really mean the
success or or really pivoting of those
businesses going forward. Now what we
are seeing is that businesses
particularly in the US and you know we
did our uh survey of customers about
5,000 customers globally about a
thousand in the United States uh about a
month ago and we see that 75% of them
are looking at innovation. So much of
that also pivot is towards services uh
which I think is something that at this
stage has not yet really been impacted
by the tariffs.
>> Marissa, what does that look like? What
does it look like the distinguishing
factor between a company who can
innovate, who can find ways to deal with
as we've been talking about this
friction and those that can't
>> scale really. So if we look at sort of
larger corporates throughout the United
States who already have had those
experiences, they clearly have that that
optionality. I think the other
interesting thing is is that any
corporates that were around in co which
obviously the larger ones were have
already gone through a shock to the
system where you have new companies that
haven't quite had that shock that will
also be a challenge for them as well.
>> Marissa you're one of the best the
clinic as always it's good to hear from
you Marissa Adams there of HSBC one of
the regional heads overseeing trade
solutions over at HSBC breaking down the
difficulty of being a corporation trying
to operate across several markets at the
moment. I really think that's why
Walmart earnings were so instructive
last week because as Marissa said, you
need scale. Who is a better example of
scale than Walmart? And yet, it was a
company that said that they're facing
increased costs every single week. What
happens if you don't have the scale of
Walmart? How do you cope with this
environment
>> beyond that? You and I talked about this
last week. Even for the Walmarts of this
world, how much longer can they hold off
before they start either doing something
on the cost side or passing those higher
costs on?
>> Right. At some point, they're going to
run out of the inventory that they've
stocked up because we saw that
happening. They brought a lot of goods
forward. At this point, do they start to
run low? And then do they need to start
purchasing things at post-tariff prices?
Which, by the way, it's not completely
clear what some of those might be if you
still have negotiations ongoing with
China and representatives coming to the
US with issues over EU digital taxes.
There's a lot of shifting sands and
again I go back to George Saris who says
that those shifts are not priced into
this market.
>> That's the latest on trade this morning.
Speaking of this market, really snoozy
price action given the discussions that
we're having at the moment. Futures
going nowhere. Bond yields a bit higher
by four basis points on 30s to about
493. Still a lot to discuss this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Matt Mskin of John
Hancock, Michael Townend of Charles
Swamp, the former New York Fed President
Bill Dudley, and Jim Biano of Biano
Research. With equities going nowhere,
the bond market going somewhere with
yields higher by four basis points on
30s and down two on two-year bond
yields. The president says Lisa Cook is
fired and Lisa Cook, the Fed governor,
says she's not. The debate continues
from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
The market will have to digest the fact
that okay, the economy is now cooling
quite a bit.
>> We would expect to see a little bit of a
growth slowdown the beginning of next
year.
>> Bonds here look like a good buy. Stocks
have done so much better than bonds over
the past several years and that gap's
going to close. In the near term,
there's going to be some volatility.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg survey and starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures going absolutely nowhere.
Futures unchanged on the S&P 500 on the
NASDAQ 100 as this rally stalls over the
past 24 hours. And the bond market, this
curve is steeper. 2-year bond yields are
down by two basis points. 30-year bond
yields are up by four, 49,295 as the
pressure continues to build on the
Federal Reserve. This is a story that's
not going anywhere with Trump attempting
to fire Alisa Cook. Lisa Cook saying
that he doesn't have the authority to do
so. It's going to be an ongoing co court
court case. Most likely a cloud that
hangs over the Federal Reserve and maybe
that's why you're not seeing as much of
a reaction in equities in the dollar
because she hasn't been formally charged
with anything. It's not clear that she
will actually be exiting. What it does
do is at the margins play with some of
the entrenched expectations of things
like norms and institutional integrity.
But again, that's just happening at the
margins. It's not enough for market to
see this as an event that is breaking
it.
>> To your point on the legal issues, and
I'm so pleased we keep going back to
this, still no formal process has
started, but the potential that we have
legal proceedings across two tracks. Can
the president fire a sitting Fed
governor? One, and will we get official
legal proceedings over the allegations
of mortgage fraud? And for the time
being, if you're in the market right
now, you're just thinking, okay,
additional pressure, but this could go
on for months and months and months.
Lisa Cook's term goes to when, the
2030s,
>> it's going to take a long, long time.
>> 2038. But also, if you're getting that
pressure on going in the background,
does that change how we view potential
rate cuts? If you get shifts more
doubbish from various Fed officials,
does it cloud it? Of course, this is a
body and very credible people on the
FOMC who likely would not be succumbing
to the politics, but it does it just
change how we view it? Also, John, can
you imagine if we get a really hot CPI
print in the next month? What that would
do? And if you maybe get Fed officials
who still cut anyway because of the
issues in the labor market, do we worry
about independence? Or what if it's hot
and they don't cut? What does that do to
the White House's reaction? I think it
makes the data all the more important.
>> The objects matter. I totally agree with
you. But for us sitting here looking at
the data and recent communication, this
is the direction of travel for the
committee has had a doubbish bias for a
while. The Fed chair spoke on Friday
basically said this is where we're going
into September setting them up to cut
interest rates.
>> I do though just have Bruce Casman of JP
Morgan that we spoke to last week just
playing over and over in my head. The
idea that he brought up was this is a
finely balanced decision and there are
plenty of legitimate reasons to cut. But
if you add to that the government
pressure and concerns about
independence, why wouldn't you move that
that in that direction? Powell just
helping this FOMC along to face less
pressure from the White House. And Bruce
called it right. We did get that pivot.
The sad thing is is if that was part of
the reasons that they pivot, it clearly
didn't help them.
>> We are testing the limits of
institutional resilience. We've said
that a few times already this morning.
Equity futures on the S&P negative by
just a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Matt Miskin of John
Hancock on growing turmoil at the
Federal Reserve. Bill Dudley, the former
New York Fed president on challenges to
the central bank's independence, and Jim
Biano of Biano Research with reaction
from the bond market. We begin this hour
with our top story. The president
ramping up the attacks on the Federal
Reserve with the latest down in
Washington. Here's Amarie. Morning,
Amory.
>> Good morning, John. We're seeing the
escalation definitely when it comes to
the reddic but as you Danny and Mike
have rightfully rightfully been saying
we really don't know where this story
stands this morning. The president says
he has cause to fire and ou Governor
Cook. She says she is maintaining her
position. He doesn't have those cause
and she's not resigning. So there's two
paths that this is going to go down
likely. One is the legal path. We
already seen uh Governor Cook attain a a
lawyer and if it goes down to as high as
say potentially the Supreme Court, I
would remind our viewers what the
Supreme Court said in May, which is that
basically the Federal Reserve is
inoculated. It is a uniquely structured
quasi private entity, meaning that if
there was no cause that while she was in
her position and acted with malfcence um
and derelction of duty, then potentially
you could see Governor Cook keep her
job. Then there's this second path which
you brought up earlier this morning
which is accurate. There's no charge.
There's no conviction yet when it comes
to this alleged mortgage fraud. We did
hear though last week from a DOJ
official saying that they plan to
potentially investigate Governor Cook.
So what happens with this investigation
is going to be key. Is there actually
evidence to these allegations? And if so
and if she is convicted or charged
potentially for the governor, it might
become untenable for her to keep that
position. And then you're looking at the
president of the United States who has a
seat to fill in the Federal Reserve for
a board member that that term goes to
2038.
>> Amarie tracking developments down in
Washington. Amarie, thank you. Here's
the view on Wall Street so far this
morning. Stocks inching lower, bond
yields inching higher following the
latest turmoil at the Federal Reserve.
Matt Misin of John Hancock is following
the situation as well. And Matt joins us
now for more. Matt, good morning sir.
Love your reaction as you wake up to
this news this morning. What is it?
Well, you are seeing the dollar take
another bow down to the to the euro and
really the dollar has just gotten
dominated by the euro all year and it's
it's really a lot of this it's getting
anchored by all this geopolitical
uncertainty this Fed independence
uncertainty and every time the dollar
starts getting a bid like yesterday it
then finds this weakness and and really
as a global investor it is helping non
US equities have an exceptional year one
of the best years ever frankly and with
all these tariffs and other geopolitical
things that you think would actually
weigh on non- US stocks. It is
absolutely boosting them. China's near
all-time highs are breaking out at
least. European shares are rallying on
this. And so, yes, we do have some
geopolitical uncertainty developing
actually in Europe here. But at the end
of the day, that's been the trade as a
as a result of this.
>> Matt, though, the dollar is falling but
barely against the euro. I mean down
just 210 of 1% versus the euro this
morning. Are you surprised that more
isn't being priced in with the concerns
ongoing?
>> Yeah, it was down 13% year to date and
now it's you know it's it's come back a
little bit and then today it's d uh the
euro's rallying again. So I think this
is in the price to some degree. I mean
this isn't we didn't wake up this
morning and find out that there's a lot
of uncertainty as it relates to
geopolitical uh backdrop here. This has
been something that's been happening all
year long. You know, we're going back to
school here. I've got two daughters, 12
and nine. Um, and we are talking about
class participation as an important
thing. Well, the United States is
failing class participation. Other parts
of the world, like Europe, are doing
very well on class participation. Now,
in terms of grades on tests and quizzes,
which actually is where a lot of the
final results are coming, the US is
doing well. We had the PMIs that just
blew out. We had the best earnings in
the world in the United States. Yet, US
equities are massively underperforming
on a US dollar basis. European equities
which are up 30, Chinese equities which
are up nearly 30. Um, and so that's
where it's showing up. And really,
again, it's been a hugely political
market this year. It's probably the most
politically driven market in history if
you look at the fingerprints that are
all over the different movements of
markets. Um, and in our view, you want
to actually fade that. We're probably
amidst an outlier historically and
that's going to moderate over time. It's
not happening this morning, but we do
think it ends up moderating. To that
point, politics dominating in Europe
too, Matt. French equities down more
than 1% this morning on the prospect
that you could have another government
that falls apart just 8 months after the
last one did. It's happening through
many places in Europe. This concern
about fiscal headroom. Matt, does that
at least at the margins make European
equities less attractive despite the
outperformance year to date?
>> Yeah, Danny, it's a good point and
really it's been multiple expansions.
So, when you think about what's happened
in Europe this year, earnings are
growing at about 3%. They were up about
2% last year. So, you're getting 2 to 3%
earnings growth out of European stocks.
To us, that's not that compelling, but
the multiple the valuation of those
businesses has jumped massively. almost
all year return has been currency and
multiple expansion and so really that's
a sentiment call now what what's driving
sentiment geopolitical backdrop and so
while the French uh equities are
struggling this morning they are pulling
back some they were never really the
leaders as much as Germany and Spain
those equities are still doing European
financials are up over 50% this year the
earnings are barely growing and they're
up over 50% um and so really to us
there's a lot of good news baked into
Europe more broadly in terms of
geopolitical backdrop. There's a lot of
negativity priced into the United States
as a as it relates to geopolitical
backdrop that tugofwar may actually
diminish some but this morning it it
hasn't.
>> So Matt, let's get into this. Are you
saying sell Europe and buy the US or
not?
We're actually fading that, John. And
because it's the fundamentals and and so
if you're an earnings person like us or
if you're a business cycle person,
you're looking at the PMIs. August PMIs,
the US blew it out relative to the rest
of the world. Europe did improve, don't
get me wrong, but around 50 stagnation
growth in Europe is the new bull market.
Whereas in the United States, we're
actually seeing booming earnings growth
and improving accelerating economy. I
think actually the back to school
shopping we've helped the economy really
accelerate here in August. Um and that
to us is what we're sticking with. We're
sticking with higher quality. We're
trying to minimize the geopolitical
input. But as a market observer, you've
got to say what it is and that's what's
really driving these markets.
>> Hey Matt, appreciate it. Matt Mining
there, John Hancock, just the prospect
of reaceleration in America. I know
we've got difficult important things to
discuss, but Missouo, Jordan Rochester's
talked about it. I've heard others. Bank
of America, DJ Barave's talked about it.
the prospect that growth starts to pick
up into year end and into 26.
>> Also, if you think about what the setup
will be for early 2026, we're likely to
get Fed cuts as we know and then you
have the one big beautiful bill. It's so
front-loaded for the first half of 2026
that could really provide a tailwind.
Any of those sort of recessant calls, I
mean, they've been put to the side
completely. I have seen though them
start to crop up to say what happens
when some of that fiscal fuel from the
first half of 2026 starts to run out.
This market has been well supported over
the past few months. Equity futures so
far this morning negative by not even a
tenth of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Island. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi Jo. We start with our top story.
President Trump is moving to oust Fed
Governor Lisa Cook over claims that she
falsified mortgage documents. Cook
responded saying that Trump has no
authority to fire her and that she won't
step down. Meanwhile, Eli Lily's
experimental obesity pill called
Orforgron helped patients lose 9.6%
of their body weight in a second trial
that could help the move the company one
step closer to a potential approval. The
success comes after investors were
disappointed by the first trial earlier
this month as Lily plans to file for
approval at some point in 2025.
And Venus Williams getting lots of
support from the US Open crowd despite
losing her match in three sets
yesterday. The 45year-old's tennis
legend hadn't played in a grand slam for
2 years, but had some big serves and
powerful strokes against Karolina Muoba.
Williams was the oldest singles player
at the US Open since 1981. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Very cool. Yara, thank you. Appreciate
it. Up next on the program, Trump
escalating his fight with the Fed. We
haven't seen pressure like this since
Johnson and Nixon. Uh it's it's very
significant. Puts the Fed in play in a
lot of ways both on the market and in
the public's eyes. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Michael
Townend of Charles Swab live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Mike Gap and Morgan Stanley just hearing
from him and the team they've changed
their view on the Federal Reserve. They
weren't looking for any cuts in 2025.
That has changed. Now looking for a cut
in September. This was published
yesterday evening before all this stuff
overnight. Now looking for 50 basis
points of interest rate cuts by year
end. Well, it was a Powell that
completely blew the door open into a
September rate cut. And the thing is
once you do that and a market price it
in, it's incredibly hard to undo.
There's been a lot of commentary that
regardless of the data we get the next
month, we're still going to get a cut.
Maybe the data coming in the next month
is more important for what happens later
on down the year, whether we get just
25, one and done, a hawkish cut or what
have you, or whether we get successive
rate.
>> And it sounds like based on that speech,
Danny, we're much more sensitive to the
jobs data maybe than the inflation data.
And that feels like a change. It did
seem like a Powell and many of the other
Fed speakers we had heard from that were
putting more emphasis on the inflation
data. But Powell really underscored that
the thing about this labor market is
that there is still so much unknown
about it and it's an incredibly
difficult time and that's why the bias
needs to shift to that
>> serious bias shift from the chair of the
Federal Reserve. Real shift in the
optics of things down in Washington as
well. Equity futures so far negative by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Likewise on
the NASDAQ 100. bond yields keeping an
eye on the very long end of the curve.
30-year bond yields high tie this
morning by four basis points for 93. And
the fairness this morning, President
Trump escalating his fight with the Fed.
We haven't seen pressure like this since
Johnson and Nixon. Uh it's it's very
significant. Um and and it's more it's
more direct. It's more public. Uh it uh
puts the Fed in play in a lot of ways,
both on the market and in the public's
eyes. So yeah, I'm I'm very worried.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president ramping up his attacks on the
Federal Reserve by announcing he will
fire Fed Governor Lisa Kirk based on
allegations she committed mortgage fraud
with the latest in Washington. Here's
Bloomberg's Amarie. Amarie.
Hey Jonathan. Good morning. So basically
you have a lot more escalation coming
from this Oval Office and this White
House when it comes to the Fed. But we
wake up this morning really not sure if
anything has changed. As Mike McKe has
been saying. The president said, the
president says Governor Cook has been
ousted and fired and Governor Cook says
no, she's not, has no plans to resign
and wants to continue to do her job. So,
where does this leave this story? And
I'm glad to say that we are now being
joined by Michael Townsen of Charles
Schwab. He works on uh regulatory and
legislative affairs. Uh Michael, very
good morning to you. Can we just get
your reaction on what comes next given
the precarious situation we are in right
now and really not knowing whether or
not Governor Cook could actually be
fired.
>> Yeah, good morning Emory. Thanks for
having me. I you know obviously an
extraordinary situation here with the
president's announcement last night and
of course as you pointed out Cook saying
that she's not going anywhere. I I think
the reality is we're looking at a
lengthy court case that's going to
unfold here and and I think that's why
the market reaction at least overnight
has been pretty muted. I think the
market is recognizing that this is an
extended fight. I I do think it adds to
the sort of ongoing focus on personnel
at the Fed because not only do you have
a vacancy uh with Steven Myron who is
going to being nominated to fill that
vacancy, that uh confirmation process is
going to play out in September. you have
the ongoing chatter uh about who will
replace Powell when his term comes up
next year and now you've got uh you know
another personnel situation. So I feel
like that's kind of taking away from the
focus on the uh the the possibility of a
rate cut at the next meeting. So there's
going to be a lot more to play out and I
think the market is recognizing that
this is going to take a long time.
Do you think the market is focusing on
this and thinking this is a good thing
in terms of Fed oversight or you think
they're looking at this and they're
concerned that this is an infringement
on Fed independence?
>> Well, look, I I think the market is
probably concerned, but I think the
market recognizes that this is a story
that's going to have to play out in the
courts and we'll see where it ends up.
So, you know, I think the market is
going to watch that as that unfolds, but
I think the market is really keenly
interested in the the potential for a
rate cut and then, you know, whether
there'll be further rate cuts in the in
the further meetings this year. So, I,
you know, in some ways, you know, I
don't want to make light of it that it's
a distraction, uh, but I think it's,
it's a story that's going to take a
while to play out and the market is
going to keep its eye on other things.
uh along with the the unfolding story,
>> do you or are you surprised that the
Federal Reserve has yet to put out a
statement or or respond to these
allegations and the president's letter
last night?
>> Yeah, I I think the uh you know, the
Cook has is responding. Um I you know, I
expect the Fed will will uh put out
something at some point that's uh
backing her. you know, Powell has said
many many times uh that, you know, he
does not think there's a legal basis for
for firing him when that was a potential
uh worry and uh and I think that's going
to have to to play out. So, you know,
we'll see if the uh if the Fed puts out
a statement, but I think they're going
to continue on their mission of watching
the data and trying to uh determine the
direction for uh potential rate cuts and
and timing for rate cuts as we move
through the uh the final months of the
year.
Michael, you're exactly right that this
may be a lengthy process and the market
is taking that as this could take
months. But what if she is fired for
cause or the situation becomes untenable
and she decides to resign? What does the
president then do with a governor's seat
that has till 2038 in terms of its
expiration?
>> Yeah. I mean, the obviously the the
president can fill a vacancy. We're
seeing that uh play out now with Adriana
Cougler's uh resignation in August and
the nomination of Steven Myron to
replace her. Uh you know, that's a
process of course that takes a little
while in the Senate. So, you know, the
the idea that the Senate is going to
come back in September and confirm Myron
in the two weeks before the September
meeting. I find that kind of a stretch
just knowing how the uh the Senate tends
to work at a uh at a relatively slow
pace. And you know if there down the
road at some point is a second vacancy
then the Senate is going to have to take
whoever is nominated for that and go
through the process. So nothing happens
fast uh as this uh unfolds and and I
think that you know again the market is
recognizing that there are a lot of
steps here that are going to have to
happen and you know we'll see how it
plays out. I think like everyone else
we're going to watch and and see what
happens.
Does it even matter given the fact that
the Fed is lining up to cut rates
potentially in September?
>> Well, I think it matters. There's no
question. I mean, who is on the Fed
board of governors matters and and as
you pointed out, you know, a change in
the makeup of the Fed board could also
uh ultimately affect who is the F are
are chosen as the Fed bank presidents.
uh and potentially, you know, for the
the numbers and and how uh many votes uh
in the sort of dovish versus hawkish
camp uh are on there. But again, you
know, I I think speculating about who's
going to be where and when uh is just so
difficult in this situation because
we're in kind of unprecedented waters.
And uh so, you know, I don't know
whether this is going to play out over
two months or 6 months or or longer than
that. So, we don't know when there
potentially will be another vacancy. and
um you know so I think that's why the
market is is trying to react calmly to
this and and see how it plays.
>> Well, the market's obviously looking for
some clarity. When it comes to the
individuals though and that dozen or so
names that the Treasury Secretary has
been floating for names that could
replace Jay Powell, do you find that
list credible?
>> Well, I I certainly think it's been an
interesting evolution because, you know,
at one point it seemed like we were down
to two or three names. Uh more recently
they've said there's close to a dozen
names. Uh you know I certainly think
some of the names on that list whether
it's Kevin Hassid or or Kevin Walsh a
former governor you know are people who
have uh the requisite experience and uh
you know we'll we'll take that job very
very seriously. Obviously uh we don't
know which way the president's going to
go. Uh it sounds more recently like that
could be multiple months before we know
uh as the sort of interview process that
I guess is being run by Treasury
Secretary Bessant uh unfolds. So, you
know, we'll see who uh who he taps, but
you know, the Fed is has a long long
history and deep deep expertise. Uh so,
you know, having one person come in and
and completely upend the Fed, I think,
is hard. I mean, there are of course
seven governors and 12 voting members of
the FOMC. So, uh you know, this again,
this is a very long game that I think
we're going to see here and um you know,
we're just going to have to keep
watching.
>> Just want to end on Congress returns.
They're back in session next week.
What's top of the agenda?
>> Well, I think the first thing that we're
watching is the appropriations process
and the potential for a government
shutdown. Of course, the government's
fiscal year begins on October 1st.
Congress is supposed to pass the 12
appropriations bills that fund every
agency and every program. They've made
very little progress on on that. So far,
and there's just so much tension between
Democrats and Republicans that, you
know, it's very hard to see that process
resolving itself neatly in the next uh
month or so. So, I do think we're
looking at a potential risk for a
government shutdown. Certainly, a
likelihood of some sort of uh continuing
resolution, temporary funding measure
that avoids a shutdown. Um, but, you
know, I think a shutdown is is very much
on the uh on the on the possibility list
here just given the level of uh of
hostility between the uh the two
parties. So, I think that's going to
dominate. I also think uh there's a
cryptocurrency bill the uh the clarity
act that was passed by uh the house in
July uh that's coming uh through the
Senate now and Senate Banking Committee
chairman has said that they want to move
uh forward with their version uh in
September. So that's something that the
crypto industry is really interested in.
So I I think there's a lot on the agenda
that uh that we'll be keeping track of.
>> Another issue of uncertainty potentially
a government shutdown. Michael Townsen
of Charles Schwab, thank you so much for
joining us. Jonathan, one thing Michael
said there I thought was interesting,
different than Henry Atra told us
yesterday. He actually doesn't think
Steve Meyer is going to get that Senate
confirmation needed in time to join the
next Fed meeting. Henry Trees though
thinks the Senate is going to move
quickly and get him on the board.
>> This is all going to take some time.
Emory down in Washington DC, I think
that gentleman did a decent job of
explaining things so far. These are
serious allegations of mortgage fraud.
It's a serious escalation, the president
going after a sitting Fed governor. But
ultimately there's got to be space for
due process and this could take months
and months and months.
>> There does need to be space for due
process. It gets dragged out and we also
have to underscore that if there are
ethical concerns that turn out to be
true. It becomes much harder to have
that person on the FOMC.
>> At the moment, no immediate consequences
in the market. We're down by about a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. In the bond
market, bond yields are higher at the
long end of the curve. Up next, we'll
catch up with the former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley on the future of
the central bank. Plus, Yahara has your
morning movers. Shares of Echoar surging
on a deal announcement.
[Music]
The equity market rally stalling over
the past few days. A slow start to a
brand new trading week. The final
trading week for the month of August.
Stay equity futures so far in the S&P
down by about a tenth of 1% now in the
S&P 500. On the Nasdaq 100 down by.13
in the bond market, lots of changes at
the front end of the curve. 2-year yield
lower over the past month following a
very weak payroll report. Some very
negative revisions and a lot of changes
including from chairman Pal setting up a
lot of changes on Wall Street too.
Deutsche Bank, BMP Paraba, Morgan
Stanley all expecting a rate cut in
September. a change of call for those
three.
>> And that's why you're seeing the yield
curve do what it is. That is a front end
that is coming down and a longer end
that's rising. I do think it's notable
though that where you're seeing the pain
isn't really the 10ear. Yes, it's
moving. It is the 30-year. If you
expected this all to be about inflation
and growing debt, you'd expect the 10ear
to be doing worse. That 1030s curve, the
steepest since 2021, it's a growing
perception that perhaps this is a White
House that will do whatever it takes to
get mortgage rates down. We spoke to the
Treasury Secretary about this. He was
sat in that chair and I asked him about
the leakage at the long end. And the
problem they've got is this is a global
story. You and I have been talking about
it. It's France. It's the UK. It's
Japan. It's the US as well.
>> Yeah. By the way, in Europe, part of the
story isn't even about fundamentals. It
has to do with changes at Dutch
pensions. What do you do about something
like that? What do you do when what's
being driven long-term isn't about
interest rates, isn't necessarily about
debt, but is mechanical issues as well.
It's an increasingly difficult long end
to get a hold of
>> bond yields at the very very very long
end of a curve up by three basis points
this morning to 492. Two hours away from
the cash open on the equity side of
things. Let's get you some morning
movers with Yhira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. The deal action keeps rolling
and this time it's in the telecom space.
AT&T is scooping up spectrum from Echoar
in a $23 billion allcash transaction.
And as a result, we are seeing Echoar
shares soaring more than 60%. The move,
according to AT&T, it is meant to
strengthen its portfolio across nearly
every US market, and it says that this
supports its long-term strategy to grow
its base of customers that use its home
internet and 5G wireless service. If all
goes well with regulators, they say the
deal is expected to close by mid 2026.
Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
Interactive Brokers rising 4% on news
that it will be joining the S&P. The
changes are set to happen this week on
Thursday before the market opens where
it will replace Walgreens, which is set
to go private. And we end on Eli Lily.
Shares are rising nearly 2.5% here after
strong results from its experimental
obesity pill or forron. Patients with
obesity and type 2 diabetes who have a
harder time shedding weight lost nearly
9.6% of their body weight and saw better
blood sugar. And these results are some
of the most closely watched in the
pharmaceutical industry because of the
potential of the pill to reach new
patients like those who want to be on
GLP1s but are afraid of needles. So this
all means that Lily is on track to file
for regulatory approval by the end of
this year and if approved the drug could
hit pharmacy shelves by 2026. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhara later on this hour on our
radar this morning. President Donald
Trump attempting to fire Fed Governor
Lisa Cook, claiming she falsified
mortgage documents. Cook responding,
saying Trump has no authority to fire
her and that she won't step down.
Elsewhere, President Trump threatening
to impose new tariffs and export
restrictions on advanced technology in
response to other nations taxes on
digital services. Trump saying the taxes
are designed to harm American
technology. It sets up another fight
with the Europeans.
>> It does. But if you have a president
whose aim is to champion corporate
America, how can you do that without
championing our largest companies, which
are tech? So, in that vein, that totally
makes sense. The issue that Trump is
likely to face is that Europeans insist
that this is a matter of sovereignty.
They find these digital taxes so
important to them that it's unlikely
you'd have the case of Canada, for
example, which face the same scrutiny
from the Trump administration and
backtrack on some of these digital
service taxes. Again, you have a
framework in place, you have a deal in
place. Doesn't mean discussions are
over.
>> Just how resolved is that deal? To your
point, it's never resolved, is it? It's
ongoing.
>> It is constantly ongoing. And it's not
even just that. It's also China having
representatives in the US, concerns
about soybeans, concerns about magnets.
Every single one of these deals that has
been reached, you constantly see a back
and forth that doesn't go away. It's
continued concerns and for companies,
maybe continued confusion on how to deal
with them.
>> Amarie said it repeatedly months and
months ago. This is a feature of this
administration, not a bug, and it will
continue through the next several years
and maybe even beyond down in Washington
DC. Want to finish on this story. Elon
Musk is suing Apple and Open AAI,
claiming they unfairly favor Open AI
across iPhones and hinder competition
for other chatbot makers. Musk and XAI
seeking billions of dollars in damages.
>> This will be so interesting to see where
this goes. A lot of people have looked
at this and say, "Oh, Elon Musk is
latigious." Of course, I think that's
quite unfair considering, remember, the
Justice Department sued Google over what
they said were illegal payments to Apple
to have Google as the dominant search on
Safari. It's kind of a similar thing
because what's replaced search? It's
increasingly becoming these chat bots.
So if a judge decided that Google
couldn't make its search the main thing
on various platforms, then why should
Apple for example be allowed to force
people to use chat GBT for their AI chat
bots? It's a question that again it's
been faced before in the prior types of
technology. As it's advancing, the
questions don't go away.
>> That's the latest with that story. Let's
turn back to our top story. President
Donald Trump moving to fire Fed Governor
Lisa Cook. The latest escalation down in
Washington DC. The pressure building on
the Federal Reserve. Bloomberg's Mike
McKe joins us now for more. Mike, I want
to build on what you were talking about
earlier on this morning that the
president's come out and said Lisa Cook
is fired and the Fed governor says no,
she's not. So, is she fired or isn't
she?
>> We don't know. That is the interesting
question right off the bat this morning.
If she shows up to work, what happens?
Does the Fed keep her out? Does the
president send US marshalss to take her
out of the Fed? Uh, how does this play
out and who takes it to court? We assume
it'll all end up in court. And the issue
will be the for cause clause in the
Federal Reserve Act. Does whatever she
did rise to the level of for cause.
Courts have generally held that it
involves what you do officially on the
job, malfeasants or neglect of the job,
things like that, rather than personal
things that took place before you were
nominated to the Fed. But that's a
question for another day. First, we got
to find out exactly what her status is.
>> So, Mike, there's some weird things
going on here. It's very difficult to
track. There's potentially two different
tracks. One, you've got legal
proceedings that haven't opened up yet
and may not over serious allegations of
mortgage fraud. And the other one is
whether the president can actually fire
a sitting Fed governor. Mike, how you
tracking both at the same time?
>> Well, we're watching to see what, if
anything, the Fed can say. They don't
have the facts yet on what Lisa Cook's
mortgage situation was. So, they're not
going to be able to publicly defend her
until and if she can show that she is
innocent. If she's not, if she did do
something wrong, then there's a good
chance the Fed might ask her to step
down. But they don't know that yet. So,
they're keeping their distance from all
of this. And the administration hasn't
said anything since the president put
out his statement last night, but we
have to watch and see how they follow up
on that. Obviously, Mr. uh Trump has a
number of appearances today and he'll do
some stuff before the cameras and we
might find out more.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Michael,
thank you. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, the former New York Fed
President, Bill Dudley. Bill, welcome to
the program. Extensive experience at the
Federal Reserve inside that institution.
How do you think they'll be responding
to this this morning?
>> They're going to be very unhappy uh
because this is a real assault on the
Federal Reserve's independence. And as
we know, central banks independence is
really important for good uh economic
outcomes. There's been a reason why
we've been moving in the direction of
greater central bank independence over
the last four decades across the world
because central banks that have
independence in terms of how they
conduct monetary policy to achieve the
objectives set for them by Congress and
the administration do a better job in
controlling inflation and keeping the
economy on a stable path. So this is
assault on that and I'm sort of
surprised that the markets are so
relaxed about this. Now maybe that's
because we don't know where this is
going to go. We don't know whether uh
Lisa Cook is going to be able to stay in
office. Uh it certainly looks like the
bar to getting her out is quite high. Uh
because doesn't seem that the uh for
cause would would extend to to to the
allegations against her, but she
certainly at very minimum deserves her
her day in court.
>> Well, Bill, it it seems like that is the
system that is emerging that we're
understanding the contours of Fed
independence from the courts. be it the
most recent ruling that said other
independent agencies could have their
heads fired by Trump but not necessarily
the Fed without cause. This may be
defining having the courts define what
cause is. If you have a system where
it's not encoded in law but instead is
being interpreted by the courts. What
does that say about the fragility or the
stability of Fed independence?
>> Well, it sort of has to be interpreted
by the courts because this is but
there's what there's no precedence for
this. So, we don't really know what the
law is until the courts actually rule on
it. So, so it so the courts have to
decide, you know, what the what what
what's the law intended to do. Um, I
think most people think that uh, you
know, what Lisa Cook did does not
represent for cause dismissal from her
governorhip, but it's up for the courts
to adjudicate that. So, Bill, if we're
in a scenario where it seems like we
might be, that this is a Fed that wants
to start to ease policy, that it wants
to cut, but because of all these
proceedings in the background, you get
some real tension on the long end of the
curve. What would the Fed do in that
case? That it wants to cut, it wants to
ease, but the markets do something
different.
>> Well, I think the Fed will do what it
thinks is appropriate to achieve its
objectives on employment and inflation.
and Paul certainly signaled at his
Jackson Hole remarks that he's worried
about the downside, risk to the labor
market more than he's worried about the
upside, risk to inflation. And so his
view that monetary policy is currently
restrictive, he basically sent a signal
that it's highly likely the Fed's going
to cut rates in September. And I don't
think this changes any of that. What it
does change is down the road when the
Federal Reserve acts, when the Federal
Reserve, if they cut rates at subsequent
times, is that because they think that's
an appropriate thing to do for the
economy or because it's because they're
under pressure from the Trump
administration. You know, putting a lot
of pressure on a central bank is in my
mind somewhat counterproductive because
it basically causes people to start to
wonder, is the central bank doing what
is appropriate to achieve its objectives
or is it caving into pressure from the
administration? But you've got great
contacts. Do you sense that shift is
already underway?
>> No, I don't think so. I think that that
I think there is a case to cut rates in
September. Uh I'm not sure I would be in
that camp. Uh I'm not as convinced that
monetary policy actually is restrictive
today. Uh and I am more worried that the
uh rise in inflation caused by the pass
through of the tariffs uh will it could
be end up being more persistent than
than Paul does. But that that's a re you
know reasonable point of disagreement.
Uh yeah, I think that if the Fed cuts
rates in September is not a a big event.
The market certainly anticipates rate
cuts over the next year. Uh they expect
the Fed eventually to cut rates back
down to what they view as sort of a
neutral federal funds rate of around 3
to 3 and a half%.
>> Bill, out of interest, why are you more
concerned about inflation? In very
simple terms, the Fed chair has
basically come out and said he's not
worried about upside risk to inflation
because of the downside risk to
employment. What makes you more
concerned? Well, four years of being
above your inflation objective. Uh, and
you know, every year you're you're above
your inflation objective, that that
increases the risk that people start to
view this is this this the steady state.
Uh, and then that starts to flow into
wage settlements and then it becomes
very difficult to get rid of the
inflation that's been embedded in the
system at that point.
>> Bill Dudley, appreciate the reaction
this morning, sir. Lots going on. Bill
Dudley there, the former New York Fed
president. Reminds me of something Lisa
Shallard and Morgan Stanley said
recently. What are the problems we're
trying to solve? real economic growth
remains positive, unemployment modest,
financial conditions are loose,
corporate credit is flowing.
>> And by the way, I should note uh Kevin
Gordon pointed this out that the city uh
economic surprise index has also risen
to the highest level since February. So
the economic data coming in has been
good. I also think Jackson Hole is
really interesting. UA gave a speech
that I actually think was very
consequential for longerterm monetary
policy. He talked about an aging
population in Japan keeping rates and
keeping inflation higher. John Williams
was out recently saying that maybe our
start is lower and back where it was
before CO and the outbreak. What's
happening in Japan if this is where the
US is headed suggests that the
structural forces actually will mean
inflation is higher and maybe continues
to be above target. To Bill's point, it
already has for four and a half years.
>> The comments from John Williams
overnight getting absolutely buried by
the news on Fed Governor Lisa Kirk. Is
she fired? Is she not fired? As Mike
McKe said, we don't really know what the
current circumstances are right now.
Where are we? Tell you where we are in
the bond market. No real drama. I said
yields are up at the long end of the
curve. They are still, but now by two or
three basis points. We're fading some of
this move. Let's call it 492 on 30s.
With an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief, let's
check in with Yhara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. China is sending a top trade
negotiator to Washington this week. A
move that signals talks are progressing.
The vice commerce minister will meet
with trade and treasury representatives
Thursday and Friday. The move comes
after both sides extended their pause on
higher tariffs through early November.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump has
called Chicago a mess and threatened to
tap the National Guard to tackle crime
in the city. Chicago's mayor said
Trump's plan is unconstitutional and a
threat to democracy. Plus, he noted that
murders in the city have fallen to the
lowest in more than a decade.
and Houston, we may have problems. The
SpaceX delayed a critical test of its
Starship rocket just a few minutes
before liftoff yesterday, citing
unfavorable weather conditions. A launch
commentator said the company could try
again today as Starship is set to take
off on its 10th major mission from
SpaceX's South Texas launch facility
called Starbase. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yahara in the next hour. And
next on the program, turmoil at the Fed.
>> Whether this changes much, I don't know.
But I think the market might be getting
wrong. We should stop fixating on rate
cuts. What this means for rate cuts. I
think what is this going to do for the
longer end of the curve? And what is the
Fed and the Treasury Department going to
do to prevent, you know, kind of a
repeat of last September?
>> That conversation up next with Jim Biano
of Biano Research live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Bill Dunley, the former New York Fed
president, saying he's surprised by how
calm this market is in the face of the
president firing a sitting Fed governor.
And it is pretty calm. We're down by 210
of 1% on the S&P, not even. We're down
by 222% on the NASDAQ 100. under
surveillance this morning. Turmoil at
the Fed.
>> Whether this changes much, I don't know,
but I think the market might be getting
wrong. We should stop fixating on rate
cuts, what this means for rate cuts. I
think what is this going to do for the
longer end of the curve and what is the
Fed and the Treasury Department going to
do to prevent, you know, kind of a
repeat of last September. I'm not even
sure anymore how the market's going to
trust whether we get a strong jobs
report on September. You would think a
month ago we would have sold off hard on
yields cuz oh, now the Fed can't cut. I
don't know that that's going to happen.
And so I I feel the data is going to be
noisy.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors weighing potential changes to
the Fed's board as President Trump moves
to fire Governor Lisa Cook ahead of next
month's policy meeting. Jim Biano of
Biano Research joins us now for more.
Jim, welcome to the program, sir. It's
been too long. Do you think this
market's underplaying the seriousness of
what's playing out in Washington over
the near-term? No. because I don't think
what happens with Fed Governor Cook in
the, you know, between now and the
September meeting is going to change the
outcome of the September meeting,
whatever the Fed decides to do. And it
looks like they're going to cut rates at
that meeting. You know, as you get into
next year and you get a new replacement
for her and the president now has four
governors, that could play out in the
markets, but that's probably a 2026
story for right now.
>> Well, Jim, can we sit on the 2026 story?
How do you think this might play out
relative to what's already priced?
>> Well, the big thing about this is a, you
know, we have to go back and look at the
Federal Reserve Act and remember that
all the Federal Reserve bank presidents,
their terms all expire at the end of
February of 2026. They expire every 5
years. Now, their boards reappoint them
and the Federal Reserve governors have
to approve all of them. Well, if
President Trump has four governors in
place by February of next year, he could
have the ability to have them veto any
Fed president that he wants and
basically kick them out. So, we could
start to see them start to change the
makeup of those district presidents and
who's in and who's out starting as early
as next year. Now, that's a scenario
that could play out, but it's not for
sure that that is the scenario that will
play out. Well, I was going to say, Jim,
John has made the point this morning
that the list of candidates we've had
for Fed chair have been very credible.
Those that have already been appointed
by Trump, very credible, Waller Bowman,
how how big of a risk is that really?
>> That's the question. If if we get a
credible candidate that looks like they
could be independent and they could, you
know, judge where the economy is and
what is the appropriate level of policy,
uh, then it it won't be a big issue. If
we get a candidate that doesn't look
very credible and would bend to
political wishes and try and, you know,
uh, change the board mix to accommodate
an easier Fed policy, that could be a
problem. So, it's all still kind of in
flux, but right now, you're right, the
most likely candidate that will replace
Lisa Cook will be the next Fed chair.
Uh, and all of the candidates that we
have that at least we're talking about
seem to be fairly credible. Jim, just to
play devil's advocate, we are dealing
right now with a deficit that is at
wartime levels, the highest since World
War II. You continue to see borrowing
costs move higher because of the
movements in this bond market. Why not
have a Fed and Treasury that works more
closely together? Why not allow the Fed
to not necessarily get rid of
independence, but work more closely with
other parts of this government just
considering the scenario that we find
ourselves in?
That's referred to as fiscal dominance.
And what that means, of course, is what
you said is that why doesn't the Fed
make it easier to pay for government by
lowering interest costs so we could have
more government? And then if you follow
through with that, the Fed could never
raise rates ever again, even if we were
to get inflation. And that would be a
real problem. It would work for a while
as long as you don't have inflation. But
when you have inflation, the argument
would be you can't raise rates to fight
inflation because it would raise the
borrowing cost of the government. And
that's how you get spiraling out of
control inflation. So such a move would
be something that would end badly. It
would only be a question of when it
would end badly.
>> Jim, it doesn't have to be that drastic.
I want to pick up on a line of thinking
that Danny introduced just last week. If
you just look at monetary policy, if
they think about the efficacy of their
policy at the moment, if they begin to
drop interest rates, but you actually
see longend rates stay higher or maybe
even creep higher because of what's
happening worldwide, don't they have
something to think about there anyway?
Don't they have to think about what to
do at the longer end of the curve?
>> I think they do and I think they should
and the recent examples show that we all
know last year when they cut rates, the
long end of the yield curve in the
United States rose. You can also look at
the ECB. President Trump likes to talk
about they're cutting rates all the time
and we're not the long end of the German
bun market or the French oat market is
going up while they are cutting rates.
Same thing is happening in the UK. And
if you want to go even shorter term
since August 1st, 1 minute before the
payroll report, the 30-year yield was
491. It's 492 right now. So for all the
talk that the Fed's going to cut in
September, the bond market's had a month
to think about it and it's up one basis
point. So it's really trying to signal
here that maybe it doesn't want these
rate cuts, but it's probably going to
get them anyway. And yes, the Fed should
be looking at all of these signals from
abroad from last year and what the
current long end of the yield curve is
doing now and really question whether or
not it is the right policy because the
bond market has not seemed to be on
board with it.
>> Jim, are you questioning as to whether
it's the right policy?
Yes, I am. I don't think it is
necessarily the right policy. I think
we're going to see inflation from both
goods prices from tariffs and the
population growth slowing because of the
um the slowdown in immigration is going
to put wage pressure on the existing
jobs that we have right now. And that
combination is going to push inflation
higher. Now, maybe because the the
border is closed and immigration is
down, you'll see some slowing of the
economy, but you might more than offset
that with higher inflation. And that's
where I think you the Fed is going to
have to think twice about whether or not
they should be cutting rates.
>> Jim, uh, we were just talking with Bill
Dudley, though, who would agree with you
that inflation potentially is a bigger
problem, but made the argument 25 basis
points of a cut in September, that's not
necessarily an issue. Do you think it is
an issue if they cut in September?
If you know it is an issue if they if
the argument is here's 25 to get
President Trump off their back that's a
political move but if they cut in
September 25 you'd have to presume what
Chairman Paul said that they are
restrictive that the dots the Fed dot
plot says that the neutral rate is
somewhere around 3% and that this is the
second uh second leg down in interest
rates to eventually get them to neutral
and that they're going to keep going
otherwise Guys, like I said, if the
argument wants to be, oh, it'll be a
oneanddone thing just for political
purposes, I don't even think that's even
a good argument as well.
>> Jim Biano, I remember when your name was
in the mix to be a Fed governor and
you're a very credible guy. Appreciate
your time, Jim Biano there at Biano
Research. It's good to see you lined up
to be a Fed governor in the last few
years and didn't happen. We prefer Jim
where he is and we get more access.
>> Yeah, but it would have been nice also
to have Governor Biano. I think we all
would have enjoyed that.
>> Wouldn't that have been cool? Want to
mix it up a little bit.
would have joined the program.
>> End the group think. I'm sure he would
have get live callins after the
decision.
>> Oh yeah, I like that.
>> Really shake things up.
>> Yeah,
>> not that they're allowed to do that, but
we can change the rules. Up next on the
program, Barry Bannister of Stifel, the
former Fed vice chair, Le Brainer,
Torson Sllock of Apollo, David
Rubenstein of Carlile. All that and more
in the third hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
So there's an enormous amount of
pressure on the Fed right now that
cannot be ignored.
>> This is the toughest position the Fed
has basically ever been in.
>> This is a Fed that's setting up to look
through maybe multiple months of some
stronger inflation data.
>> There's a big story in inflation that
needs to be spelled out.
>> We're getting really excited about a cut
in September when we've got a lot of
data still to come. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores are shaping up as
follows. Equity futures on the S&P 500,
negative by around about a tenth of 1%.
Likewise on the NASDAQ 100. In the face
of a storm brewing at the Federal
Reserve, this market is pretty calm. In
the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30-year bond yields, the curves getting
stretched is steeper. We're lower by two
basis points, call it three at the front
end, higher by two at the long end, 30s
at 490, twos at 369.
>> And the reaction is getting more muted
as we get closer to the US open. I was
speaking with Ed Cole of Mang Group this
morning who said to me, the way that the
market is interpreting this is more cuts
are coming and that is a good thing. We
even see it in the small cap index which
is marginally higher in the future
session. But again again we're starting
to hear we heard it from Jim Bienko. We
heard it from Bill Dudley that the Fed
might face a problem of optics that yes
sure you get a cut that maybe the market
initially cheers but if there's an issue
where it's seen for a political reason
maybe some of that cheer wears thin.
>> Do you think that shift is already
happening? Now we asked Bill that
question and Bill said no. He doesn't
think it is but it might in the future.
I wonder I've spoken to a few people
already in the past week or so who think
the shift from the chair of the Federal
Reserve is underpinned by the political
pressure of the last month.
>> That that certainly was the argument
from JP Morgan's uh Bruce Casten when we
spoke with him on Friday because you did
see a shift from Powell. The last time
he talked about monetary policy, he said
it wasn't clear that fiscal conditions
were overly tight, that they needed to
be more accommodative. we heard
something different off of data that was
very unclear. So you could yes make the
argument that there is a credible reason
to be cutting but again it was a big
shift from POW which I think is why that
question's come up.
>> We are waiting for more data and
arguably the biggest data point of the
week comes from Nvidia after the close
tomorrow afternoon. So look out for
that. Futures at the moment no real
drama down by about a tenth of 1% on the
S&P. Coming up this hour we'll catch up
with Barry Banister of Stifel looking
for a stock market correction. We speak
to the former Fed vice chair La Brainard
as President Trump moves to fire the
Fed's Lisa Kirk and Tost Slock of Apollo
with the latest reaction from bond
markets. We begin this hour with stocks
falling. Barry Bannister of Stifel
writing, "We expect the S&P 500 to
correct 10 to 14% in the second half of
25 as a portion of the stagflation
investors feared in the first half
becomes a reality." Barry joins us now
for more. Barry, it's been too long,
sir. Welcome back to the program. I can
understand the discomfort. You're
uncomfortable with this rally and the
all-time highs we printed only recently.
Just extend your thinking on the matter,
Barry. Why do you think we end up with a
stagflation that people feared?
>> Hi, good to see you, Jonathan and Danny.
Um, yeah, this has been the bull market
that broke macro, right? So uh um you
know for example in the first half of
2025 real or after inflation personal
consumption expenditures 68% of GDP went
negative on a year-over-year basis that
never happens without a recession has
ever happened without a recession. So
we're a bit uh taken aback by you know
the thematic approach rather than
viewing stock investing as buying
companies. It seems to be more based on
purely theme and hopes and dreams, but
uh we're we're aware of the risks and uh
we you know we can discuss them if you'd
like.
>> Well, let's discuss them now, Barry. So,
ultimately, you think we end up in a
state of stagflation, which would which
suggests that maybe the Fed's dovish
bias is somewhat constrained. I think
what we're all trying to work out is why
we ultimately end up in that situation
because this Fed still has very much a
dovish bias.
Yeah, it does have a dovish bias. But
consider this um you know using all
available data using the Fed rate that
existed as well as the core personal
consumption expenditure deflator data
for inflation. The real rate the rate
after inflation the median since 1946
has averaged 80 basis points.88 8 uh
it's also in the modern Fed since Vulkar
uh collapsed inflation since 1985 it's
been 085.
So, you know, answer me this. If we're
going to have more than uh or around 3%
core PCE right up until the Fed chair
changeover in May of 26,
then explain why the Fed should cut more
than twice because at that point they
would be at about a 7.8 real rate. So,
all this talk of neutral rates, that's a
guess. But inflation as measured by
Bureau of Economic Analysis on the PCE,
that is reality. And so, um, I think the
market's just a little bowled up on the
Fed uh steepening the curve.
>> Barry, that's the inflation side of
things. But on the growth side of
things, how do you look at growth
slowing when you have the AI companies
spending hundreds of billions of dollars
every year on their data center and
energy buildouts?
Yeah, that's a good question, Danny. If
you look at the actual expenditures,
besides the fact that a lot of it is
import uh imported electronics and
therefore tariff front running to an
extent, uh but it's about 1% of GDP. Uh
but on a year-over-year basis, it will
follow the free cash flow of big tech.
And it looks to us like it's going to
actually on a year-over-year basis slow
down. And since you know the market just
operates on the change in the rate of
growth, um it's uh it's kind of a spent
story as far as the uh incremental
impact on the market goes.
>> So if we do get that correction, Barry,
that 10 to 14%, where can you hide out?
Well, when you think about the uh the
walls of worry that we're involved in,
we're doing a complete revamp of the
world trade and financing flows, and
we're also more tolerant of inflation in
a runh hot administration.
Um AI, I I think it's not as scalable as
things like software. And as a
consequence of all that, some of this
hype in the market would probably
gravitate back into things like beaten
down health care, consumer staples,
waste management companies, uh
utilities. Uh there are a lot of uh
places to hide. However, um in this
market,
>> there's not a lot of uh interest in in
not hiding. There's a lot of uh a lot of
risk takingaking. Well, we certainly saw
some of that speculative behavior take
place on Friday after that speech from
Jackson Hole. I'd love your view on how
you describe this regime right now,
Barry, down in Washington DC. They've
just turned the chips act essentially
into an investment vehicle and we've got
a very activist president investor
sitting in the White House. Barry, how
does that change things for you and the
team and the way you engage in markets
and think about the US economy?
Look, it's not a knock on the
administration at all. Uh but there's a
little bit of what I would just call an
ego trip going on. Um they're um not
going to run this uh they've already got
a hedge fund. It's uh called the the
Treasury market uh and the Federal
Reserve, but uh they're not going to uh
institute a uh dramatic increase in
industrial policy. U this was probably
more of a oneoff. I think there would be
some resistance to the government being
overly involved in stakes in running US
companies.
>> Not a ton of resistance right now at
least. Barry, appreciate your time and
your perspective on the market. Barry
Ballister there of C4 looking for a 10
to 14% correction in the second half.
His points are very valid and I think to
your point as well and I've been
engaging in the same kind of thinking on
the matter. You've got the September
issue for the Federal Reserve. Park
that. Then you've got the longerterm
issue for the Federal Reserve. Think
about that a little bit more. If we are
getting prints on inflation around 3%,
it makes it very difficult to keep on
cutting interest rates all the way up
until Pal's end of term up in May 2026.
>> And look, we we've been talking about
adnauseium about the long end of the
curve. What happens if you do get hot
prints and they're cutting at the same
time. That just exacerbates the problem
that we're already undergoing. And
again, it seems like the prints that
we're about to get speak not to what
will happen in September because many
people have said that it's a lock. It
speaks to what happens after September.
to your point John. So the data is
becoming increasingly important for that
longer term outlook.
>> Things have settled down. We have to
point that out repeatedly. There hasn't
been much drama throughout this morning
anyway. But as the US session takes over
bonds at the very long end of the curve
only up by a single basis point now at
the front end of the that move sticks.
So we're down by three basis points.
Twos at the moment 369 which is kind of
around the post payrolls low. The day
after I think the Monday after payrolls
on a Friday was the low for the two
years. So, we're around those levels
right now.
>> I say it's it's it cross markets, right?
So much has happened, but volatility is
gone. Bonds are trading in a really
tight range. Equities are going nowhere
fast around all-time highs. It maybe
speaks to the fragility of the moment,
but what is the bar to see actual
ruptures? It's not the president trying
to fire a Federal Reserve governor. So,
what is the bar to actually see movement
in both the equity stock and dollar this
morning? 369 on Tuesday at the front end
of the curve with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yhira for more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. President Trump is moving to ou
Fed Governor Lisa Cook over claims that
she falsified mortgage documents. Cook
responded saying that Trump has no
authority to fire her and she won't step
down. The move represents a significant
escalation of the president's battle
against the Fed, which he says is taking
too long to lower interest rates.
Meanwhile, Elon Musk is suing Apple and
Open AAI, accusing them of colluding to
block rivals in the AI market. In a
federal lawsuit, Musk's X and XAI claim
Apple's integration of Chat GBT into
iPhones gives it an unfair monopoly and
deprivives consumers of choice. OpenAI
dismissed the case as harassment.
And a new research report found that AI
is making it harder for entry-level
workers in the US to find jobs in fields
like software development and customer
service. Stanford University researchers
say they found that over the last 3
years, employment has dropped 13% for
people who are just starting out in
fields determined to be the most exposed
to AI. That Bloomberg rates John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the morning
calls. Plus, we'll catch up with the
former Fed vice chair Le Brainard as
President Trump looks to fire Fed
Governor Lisa Cook from New York City.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
This is a real assault on the Federal
Reserve's independence. I'm sort of
surprised that the markets are so
relaxed about this. Now, maybe that's
because we don't know where this is
going to go. We don't know whether Lisa
Cook is going to be able to stay in
office. Uh it certainly looks like the
bar to getting her out is quite high.
There's no precedence for this. So, we
don't really know what the law is until
the courts actually rule on it.
>> That was the former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley. And this market
still looks pretty relaxed in the face
of what's taking place down in
Washington. Equity futures down by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P and the NASDAQ.
We're down by 0.2. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Morgan Stanley lowering
its price target on Lululemon to 223.
Expecting the company to lower fiscal
year EPS guidance on higher tariffs.
Your second call from Bank of America
lowering its price target on Salesforce
to 325. Expecting inline 2Q results that
are not likely to be a catalyst for the
stock. And finally, truest upgrading AMD
to buy, noting customers were testing
its technology as a price check to
Nvidia. The stock is up by 2.3%. Let's
turn back to the Federal Reserve.
President Trump's efforts to ou Fed
Governor Lisa Kirk intensifying concerns
over the central bank's independence
with the latest and a special guest is
Amarie. Hey Amarie.
>> Good morning, John. I'm joined now by
someone who intimately understands the
Fed, was there for 10 years, and most
recently was the Fed vice chair under
Jay Powell, who is still now the chair,
and that's of course L Brainer. L, thank
you so much for joining us this morning
as we see this standoff between
President Trump and Governor Cook. We
have yet to hear from the Fed itself.
What kind of response do you think we
can expect from the institution? Well, I
think the Federal Reserve is in an
incredibly difficult position here, but
you have to remember this is not about
an individual governor. This is really
an unprecedented attack on the
independence of the Federal Reserve as
an institution. There is nobody in the
Federal Open Markets Committee, the
monetary policy setting committee that
can't be thinking, well, what does this
mean for me? And so any member of the
board presumably is going to worry that
they too could be subject to this kind
of political pressure and that
fundamentally undermines the
institutional independence of the Fed
which means higher inflation potentially
less credibility even higher long-term
interest rates bad for the economy.
>> Do you think this can actually impact
how members are thinking about monetary
policy? Well, I just think the
implication if any member of that board
could come under this kind of political
pressure from the White House and of
course we saw that kind of pressure on
the chair earlier this year. I think
that does really put a higher premium on
whether they're going to be willing to
speak their minds to descent on key
votes if necessary. I think it really
does create unprecedented risks. The
president's letter talked about this
mortgage allegation fraud in in the
mortgage world for Governor Cook. What
if she was charged or convicted? Well, I
think what is important here is due
process and undertaking a real
investigation and having the facts on
the table and the ability um for uh her
to defend herself legally. None of that
has taken place here. the White House
has preempted the process and so that is
why it's really unprecedented. It's very
very threatening to the very
independence uh of the Federal Reserve
and it should cause concerns I think
among investors and more broadly about
that fun fundamental underpinning of our
strong economy and our strong financial
markets. Given this is just about one
individual, does the Fed come out and
say something or do they need to wait
until that due process takes place?
>> So the Federal Reserve as an institution
is all about due process and there have
been individuals who have had
investigations previously. Um there's a
good process for doing that. That's not
what's taking place here. This is really
about trying to overturn uh the majority
of the board of governors long before
any of these governor's terms are up by
threatening them with these kinds of
investigations and firing without uh
real due process and cause. Uh and
again, the Federal Reserve's
independence really is at stake here.
And that means that monetary policy will
increasingly be overshadowed by concerns
that there's political interference
whether or not that is actually the
case. If you think about it, JPAL opened
the door for an interest rate cut in
September very clearly. That's exactly
what the president wants. So monetary
policy is actually moving his way. Um
and yet this is a very very aggressive
attack on the Federal Reserve when
monetary policy is is doing exactly what
he's been calling for.
>> That speech the Fed chair gave at
Jackson Hole just on Friday is very
different from how he sounded Jay Powell
four weeks ago. Do you think the speech
was political?
>> Well, I think that um the chair was very
careful in laying out that the balance
of risks had shifted. He pointed
specifically to the possibility that the
labor market is weakening faster than
the members of the FOMC had believed in
their last meeting because of the
revisions to 3 months worth of hiring
data. And so he laid out a very, I
think, strong case based on data and the
facts why they were now potentially
going to be more attentive to that labor
market weakening while acknowledging
that inflation is still likely to go up
because of the very high tariffs that
have been put in place.
>> Knowing the data and knowing all the
personnel that are going to get together
at the next Fed meeting, September 17th,
do you expect them all to walk through
that door that the Fed chair opened up
for a cut? Well, I don't know if all
members of the FOMC will be in the same
place. And of course, what we should
hope for is a really good debate and an
airing of differing views. But I do
think uh that barring something really
surprising in the upcoming employment
print and CPI print, uh it's more likely
than not uh that they will vote for a 25
basis point reduction in the federal
funds rate. Do you think there's a bias
to the labor market in this Federal
Reserve?
>> So, up until this point, I think what
we've heard is a lot of discussion about
the potential risks to inflation,
inflation is still high. You know, it is
uh between 2 and a half and 3% and while
this time last year it was going in the
right direction, moving down to the 2%
target, this year it's actually moving
up. So we have heard a lot of attention
to inflation uh appropriately so but the
chair acknowledged that they are
balancing risks risks of higher
inflation risks of lower employment and
that is exactly what you expect from
tariffs a stagflationary shock. when he
was talking about tariffs, he said that
it's not going to come all at once. The
impact is the Fed chair basically
signaling to the market and to us to
just look through any potential hot CPI
prints that come out between now and the
next 12 months. So, uh, my
interpretation of that discussion is
simply to acknowledge that when the
labor market starts to turn down,
unemployment often doesn't gently move
up and the Federal Reserve doesn't have
a lot of time to react, unemployment
often jumps higher. Whereas uh because
the tariffs have changed a number of
times and still do not seem to be
settled because uh businesses were so
good at getting inventories in ahead of
time because consumers did a lot of
advanced purchases. Those tariffs are
working their way into prices more
slowly. So I think it was just an
acknowledgment of different potential
timing on the two legs of the dual
mandate. It felt like Chair Powell was
coming around to how Governor Waller
thinks or maybe how Governor Bowman
thinks. And I want to end on those two
individuals, their names potentially to
be the next Fed chair. But there are
scenario people are talking about that
all the presidents terms need to be uh
renewed in February. Would you see a
situation or risk that the Fed board
would nyx multiple presidents at the
bidding of the president of the United
States? Well, I think uh that is exactly
the risk uh that we are seeing play out
right now. So by moving preemptively to
remove a governor uh from the Federal
Reserve without going through the
process without there being any clear
evidence. Uh the president essentially
is moving to uh shift the majority of
the board of governors well before what
was contemplated in terms of the
institutional structure and their terms.
And that opens the door when renewals of
all of the reserve bank presence come up
in February uh to again take very
unprecedented actions and potentially
not renew some of them in order to shift
the overall uh voting majority on the
FOMC. That is an unprecedented attack on
the independence of the Federal Reserve
and it should really concern us about
their ability to continue to uh be
credible in fighting inflation and
keeping our economy on a strong course.
>> But just quickly, you know, Governor
Bowman and Waller, do you think they
would be up for that kind of level of
revamping? So this is really not about
individual members of the board or the
FM FOMC. This is really about whether
political pressure will continue to be
exerted on all members of the FOMC in a
way that puts them in jeopardy and
potentially makes them less willing uh
to share their views about the economy
and appropriate monetary policy with the
public and also to vote uh their mind uh
on monetary policy decisions. That is
what is at stake here and I think it's
very concerning. Le, thank you so much
for your time this morning. Jonathan, of
course, that was the former Fed vice
chair, Lel Brainer. She of course also
went on to then work under the Biden
administration as President Joe Biden's
NEC uh director. What she's saying there
is this really is not an attack on an
individual. She thinks this is an attack
on the institution.
>> Amory with the latest in Washington.
Amory, thank you. The conversation is
going to continue. Fantastic lineup to
close out the program this morning. In
just a moment, we'll catch up with
Tossen Slog of Apollo with the latest
reaction from the bond market. Plus,
we'll speak to you higher as we get your
morning movers. Eli Liy shares jumping
in the pre-market as its weight loss
pill moves ahead. The stock is up by
2.5%. Equity futures on the S&P 500
negative this morning by just a tenth of
1% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq, the main
event is tomorrow. Nvidia earnings after
the closing bell about 8% of the S&P
500. It's waiting on the NASDAQ 100 is
about 10% and it probably amounts to
about 110% of investor sentiment. In the
bond market, two-year, 10-year, and
30-year bond yields shaping up as
follows. The curve is steeper. Danny's
been talking about it all morning.
Yields down at the front end, up at the
long end, up 2130s to 4 91.
[Music]
here's the state of play 60 minutes out
from the open and bal equity futures
negative by just a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 100 down by.14 in
the bond market 2-year bond yields are
lower 30-year bond yields are higher
this curve is steeper we're down three
at the front end 36958
we're two at the long end 491. This
debate at the front end of the curve.
Chairman Pal's speech on Friday
solidified where this Federal Reserve is
heading in September and maybe beyond
and the additional pressure overnight is
certainly not changing the direction of
travel. It's not changing the direction
of travel because one of the market's
big takeaways and I think the thing you
can hang your hat on is this is a
Federal Reserve that is moving in a more
dovish direction. Everything else is
going to take so long to play out. It's
going to take a long time to understand
exactly what Governor Lisa Cook's
standing is on the Fed, whether she's
going to have a vote going forward,
whether there is some real threat to
independence. Again, the one thing that
you can hold on to is it's a Fed that's
going to cut.
>> This is going to take some time as Danny
pointed out, which is why this market is
somewhat relaxed about the issues at the
moment. With 60 minutes until the cash
open, let's get you some morning moves
and cross over to Yhara for more. Hey,
Yhara.
>> Hi, John. We start with the chipmaker
AMD. Shares are rising 2.7%
after announcing a partnership with IBM
on quantum computing. This is an area
that IBM has been focused on and now AMD
will supply the chips to help make it
happen with the company's planning on a
demo for later this year. It's also
getting an extra boost after analyst
Will Stein over at Trist gave it an
upgrade. Meanwhile, we are seeing shares
of Eli Liy also rising here 2 and a.5%
after strong results from its
experimental obesity pill. Patients that
took the drug lost nearly 9.6% of their
body weight and saw better blood sugar
as a result. And these results are some
of the most closely watched in the
pharmaceutical industry because of the
potential of the pill to add new
patients who want to be on GLP1s but are
afraid of needles. This all means that
Lily is on track to file for regulatory
approval this year and that we could see
these on pharmacy shelves by next year.
And the deals keep rolling. This time it
involves this company, Ollex. Shares are
up 2%. This is a hair care company that
makes shampoos and it is making its
first ever acquisition. It announced it
is buying a US beauty focused biotech
firm named Pervala to boost R&D. This
adding to the deal news we heard earlier
from AT&T and a flurry of action
yesterday. John,
>> we've seen a lot of deal making over the
past week. That's for sure. Yhara, thank
you. Appreciate it. Let's turn back to
our top story. President Donald Trump
moving to fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook.
We still don't know if she can enter the
building this morning. Mike McKe has
more for us. Good morning, Mike. What is
the latest?
>> Good morning, John. Well, we don't know
if she's even in town in Washington and
trying to enter the building, but it is
an open question right now. We're also
waiting to find out whether or not
somebody goes to court. Would the
president go to court to try to get her
out of the building if she goes in? Will
she seek an injunction to prevent
herself from being fired? All of that is
up in the air, as is what happens going
forward when the courts have to decide
on this issue. Does the Fed have a
carveout on the four cause? And then
would she meet the four cause uh label?
So, there's a lot of questions out there
right now. At the same time, you've also
got the Fed on track to cut rates in
September. People keeping an eye on
that. And uh that in theory would not
change one way or another with Lisa Cook
uh in or out. And she would probably
vote with the chair who suggested it may
be time to cut rates. We just had
durable goods orders come in. Reasonably
strong, down 2.8%, but that was largely
a drop in Boeing aircraft orders. 32% uh
drop there. most other categories up and
the core capital goods orders
non-defense xair were up a fairly strong
1.1% so there's still some strength in
the economy the Fed's going to have to
figure out if that's enough to prevent a
rate cut on September 17th
>> yeah Mike if we don't get a rate cut on
September 17th I imagine fireworks not
the right kind taking place down in
Washington DC before we get to all of
that Mike in the last hour we spoke to
the former New York Fed president a man
you and I both know well Bill Dudley
Bill was surprised with how relaxed the
market is this IC. Mike, I'd love your
impression of things. Your reaction to
the lack of market reaction.
>> Well, we're all surprised by that a
little bit, but I think really what's
going on is that the markets aren't
thinking that Trump can get away with it
right now and that they are
concentrating on the idea that the Fed
is going to cut rates and so they're
getting what they want going forward.
Now the yield curve has steepened as
Danny's been talking about and that is a
sign that at least the bond side the
fixed income side is concerned about
what could happen here.
>> Mike McKe with the latest. Mike, thank
you sir. Joining us around a table to
SLO of Apollo to good morning.
>> Morning. Morning.
>> Your reaction to this one.
>> Well obviously the market reaction here
is uh a little bit surprising in the
sense that the stock market is basically
now unchanged at least before we open.
But what you're seeing in the long end
is certainly somewhat worrisome. The
yield curve is steepening. Telling you
that the market is expecting that rate
cuts are coming because this seems to be
at least more likely given recent
discussions including J. Powell on
Friday. But also that the long end has
moved higher is obviously equivalent to
beginning to think about that maybe
there is a risk that inflation is going
to be a problem for a longer period than
what people thought just a few days ago.
The conclusion from a broader
perspective is obviously a discussion
around well maybe we should just begin
to think about when we say rates are
higher for longer that maybe it's long
rates that will be higher for longer not
only for fiscal reasons but also now
because of this emerging debate not only
because of what pow said last Friday in
Jackson Hole about the framework but
also about this issue now about well
what would the composition of the MC
look like are they going to allow
essentially the inflation target to be
higher than what it has been just for
the last several years
>> to really zero Zing in on the shape of
the yield curve though in talking about
duration getting hit it is the 30-year
yield. It's a 10-year yield which hasn't
moved as much and you'd expect if the
issue is is more persist persistent
inflation the 10-year yield also would
be moving higher. 10's 30s curve is the
steepest since 2021. Why is the 30-year
yield specifically acting as the release
valve?
>> Well, there's just more sensitivity in
the form of duration in the very long
end. So 10 year rates of course are not
down as much as two-year rates are. So
really it is the whole yield curve that
is just steeper. And you're right, the
10ear rate basically being only down a
little bit here as we speak is certainly
also telling us that it really is the
very long duration exposure. Those with
very long duration exposure relative to
matching their long duration
liabilities, they are the ones that are
reacting to this mainly worrying about
that 30-year is where most of the action
has been. But you're right, it is a
little bit peculiar. We look at it here
and say, well, why are 30s moving so
much more than tens? But I think it is
just a reflection of the whole yield
curve steepening here that is going to
take some time now to digest and as Mike
also was just saying well what exactly
will be the scenario we have now ahead
of us. Is this going to change the
composition of the FMC or what will the
FMC then look like especially when we
come to the other side of February next
year?
>> So is it your assumption if we get more
doves appointed to the FOMC more people
who are maybe listen willing to listen
to the arguments of the White House that
it's the inflation target that changes
that that's the main mechanism? I
absolutely think that we should all
think of this as essentially a change in
the inflation target. We have now for 30
40 years been used to the inflation
target is 2%. If I own treasuries, my
fixed income portfolio will be eroded by
2% every year. And if inflation now is
allowed to be higher for longer and if J
Pal now last Friday said that the change
in framework away from flexible average
inflation targeting also will allow
inflation to be higher for longer that
means that bond investors should begin
to think about that it is simply the
same as saying that the inflation target
will also be higher. Not necessarily
significantly higher than two but even
if it goes to two and a half and three
over time that's a fairly significant
erosion for fixed income investors
especially in public markets. to these
are really important critical serious
points but this has happened independent
of the pressure on central bank
independence. The whole point of central
bank independence is to make the tough
decisions divorce from the political
cycle to make sure that you hit your 2%
target. So what is the excuse for
chairman Pal and the Federal Reserve to
miss this target for so many years?
>> Well the issue of course at the moment
is that normally the dual mandate
meaning inflation and unemployment
normally points in the same direction.
If you have a strong economy and
unemployment rate goes down, inflation
goes up and you should hike rates. If
you have a weak economy, the opposite
happens. Of course, inflation goes down
and growth goes down. Of course, you
should be cutting rates. Now, there is
this tension in the dual mandate. And
that is what brings this discussion to
the table. Namely, that now the dual
mandate is pulling in different
directions. Inflation is saying the Fed
should be hiking. And if we have upward
momentum, if I look at ECFC, go on my
Bloomberg screen, the consensus expects
inflation for the next 12 months to be
3% for the next four quarters. That's a
very high level of inflation when the
target is two. That says that the Fed
should even consider hiking rates. But
at the same time, pal very clearly last
Friday said, "No, no, we're now going to
put much more weight on the slowdown in
the labor market." And with the
anchoring in the long-term inflation
expectations, that could be the excuse
and the reason, the small door out of
saying, "Well, maybe we don't need to
worry so much about inflation. Maybe we
can focus more on the labor market." So,
the answer to your question is it's
because of the tension in the dual
mandate that one part of the dual
mandate says they should be hiking and
the other part says you should be
cutting. And that's what brings this
discussion to the table at the moment
about what exactly is the best decision.
>> As you know, the way they're addressing
that at the moment is to say
essentially, and this is coming from the
Fed chair. Governor Waller shares this
view, the labor markets not sufficiently
tight enough to worry about second round
effects that this inflation story will
ultimately be, they won't say it, but
they're basically spelling it out,
transitory. Would you push back against
that?
>> Well, the risk is that we don't know if
that's the case. Beth Hammock at the
Cleveland Fed has been pointing out that
companies in her district are beginning
to raise prices even those that are not
impacted by tariffs. So the risk is also
in services inflation. Services makes up
twothirds of GDP and the ISM prices paid
in services has really started going up
and that suggests that even and Austin
Goldby was also pointing to this that
even the service part of the CPI index
could begin to show some upward
pressure. So we just don't quite know if
we're out of the woods on the inflation
front. So that's also why inflation
swaps in 12 months time are pricing that
inflation will be in one year's time
3.4% that is dramatically higher than
the Fed's 2% target and that is the fear
of course that some people in the market
have name that maybe inflation is going
to be not only transitorially higher but
maybe there is a risk that it could be
more permanently higher in the sense
that we will have inflation higher for
longer and that's of course the risk
that we could have a policy mistake here
by focusing too much on the labor
market.
>> Well let's talk about how policy might
evolve. There's three time frames to
think about here. Danny talked about two
of them a little bit earlier. There's
September, then everything else. But
there's September, everything else, and
then there's life after PAL from May
onwards. And I just wonder whether you
think perhaps we're getting ahead of
ourselves here that beyond September,
there's still a lot to play for.
>> I do think that it's a good idea to take
a deep breath and go for a long walk in
a green park and say, you know what,
touch grass.
>> There's a lot of things going on at the
moment, which of course are somewhat
unusual, including, of course, the topic
of the day. But let's see what the data
is telling us. We have a lot of data
points before we get even to the
December meeting. So the market is
currently only pricing a cut here in
September and December. But getting into
next year, the economy could be in a
very different place. We could either
have a scenario where inflation is a lot
higher and we have a whole different
discussion. But it could also be a
scenario where we have growth slowdown
that's a lot weaker and therefore the
Fed will be cutting a lot more. So let's
take the data as it comes in and watch
exactly how it plays out relative to the
dual mandate for the Fed.
>> Bill Dudley talked about the same thing.
If you're in the threes going into 2026,
this gets harder and harder to cut.
>> It does get a lot harder, but I think
it's going to be really instructive on
Thursday. Governor Waller is going to be
giving a full-fledged monetary policy
and economy speech considering Powell's
come around to his camp and he's up for
the Fed chair. I think that's really
also going to determine maybe that
medium-term plus longer term trajectory
of the Fed
>> and then Pow can take notes and
basically use the same notes in the news
conference, which is basically what the
speech was on Friday. Anyway, Alyssa
Meark, I want to finish on with you
where you think this is ultimately
heading K. Do you believe we do end up
in this situation where we are facing
stagflation and this Federal Reserve is
ultimately paralyzed and that dovish
bias is constrained? Because at the
moment, what we hear is the dovish bias
isn't constrained. Do you think that's
the ultimate destination though?
>> I absolutely think the ultimate
destination. Exactly. Because the issue
is normally Fed policy is very
straightforward because both parts of
the dual mandate are actually designed
to point in the same direction with the
business cycle. When the economy is
good, you should be hiking. When the
economy is bad, you should be cutting.
But now, because of this tax
deflationary impulse coming not only
from tariffs, but also coming from
immigration restrictions and
deportations, lowering labor supply and
putting upward pressure on wages in the
sectors where unauthorized immigrants
are working, namely agriculture,
construction, hotels, and restaurants.
That's the deflationary impulse is
creating this very complex situation for
the Fed where it becomes a matter of do
you like apples, do you like oranges as
the Fed chair or as the FMC? Do you like
inflation or do you like the slowdown in
growth and where do you put your weight
and that does indeed depend a lot on
what is the composition of the committee
>> to good to see you as always good to
talk to you all morning as always to sl
there of Apollo breaking down the latest
situation breaking down the market right
now futures just a little bit softer
bond yield at the long end just a little
bit higher with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief
here's your hyrah
>> hi John wildfires in California and
Oregon prompting thousands of
evacuations in Oregon the flat fire is
just about 5% contained. Meanwhile, the
Picket Fire in Northern California is
15% contained. It has so far spared wine
vineyards in the area, but it has burned
nearly 7,000 acres since it started last
week. Meanwhile, shares of Echoar are
soaring more than 70% after AT&T agreed
to purchase certain wireless spectrum
licenses for approximately $23 billion.
The two have also agreed to enhance
their long-term wholesale network
services agreement, enabling Echoar to
operate as a hybrid mobile network
operator providing wireless service
under the Boost Mobile brand. And in
sports, top ranked players continue to
dominate in the first round of the US
Open with Carlos Alcarez and Francis
Tafo both winning in straight sets.
World number one Yannik Center takes the
court later today for the women's
tournament. American American Madison
Keys fell in the first round and top
ranked American Cocoa Golf plays later
this evening. That's Bloomberg Reef.
John
>> Alcarez looks like a UFC fighter now.
New haircut. You seen that shaved head?
Buzz cut.
>> I thought you were saying cuz sometimes
when he practices, he practices without
his top. It looks
>> He looks shredded as well, but now with
the shaved head, we're sort of like
taking an extra step. Anyway, good luck
to him later on. Up next on the program,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, David Rubenstein of the Carlile
Group as President Trump moves to fire
the feds. Lisa Cook.
[Music]
I think the Federal Reserve is in an
incredibly difficult position here. But
you have to remember this is not about
an individual governor. This is really
an unprecedented attack on the
independence of the Federal Reserve as
an institution, which means higher
inflation, potentially less credibility,
even higher long-term interest rates,
bad for the economy.
>> That was just moments ago. The former
Fed vice chair Leil Briner joining
Bloomberg surveillance in the last hour.
It's our top story this morning.
President Donald Trump attempting to
fire the Fed Governor Lisa Cook. Joining
us now to discuss, David Rubenstein of
the Carile Group. David, welcome to the
program, sir. Welcome back, I should
say. What a moment for Washington, DC.
This president is not scared to
intervene, whether it's taking an equity
stake in Intel or attempting to fire a
sitting Fed governor. David, you've seen
it all in your time in Washington and on
Wall Street. How would you describe this
moment in the nation's capital?
>> Well, obviously this is a time of first
impression as lawyers would say. We
haven't seen this before. Uh the Federal
Reserve has never had somebody fired by
a president of the United States before.
As far as I know, the Federal Reserve
was set up in 1913. So, this is very
difficult situation. We don't know what
the outcome will be. Uh Lisa Cooks has
said she's hired a lawyer, a well-known
lawyer in Washington, DC, and she's
presumably going to fight this. So will
probably be resolved in the courts.
>> David, it's a market that's little
reacting to that. Maybe some in yields,
little in equity. You've worked with
countless companies over your career.
When there's this level of uncertainty
in Washington DC, be it tariffs, be it
DC, as John was saying, be more active
in taking stakes in companies. What is
the playbook?
>> Well, obviously markets like certainty.
They don't like unpredictability. But
many of the things that President Trump
has been doing are things he said he
would do and many of these things are
relatively predictable in the sense that
he said he wants to make changes in the
Federal Reserve. So I think the markets
are not as upset about it as if some
other president was were doing it and I
think the markets will absorb it. uh we
don't know how this is going to get
resolved but clearly what's going on is
an effort to lower interest rates on the
part of the president and he believes
strongly that that's a desirable outcome
and he's told that to J Pal and I
suspect we'll be seeing a lowering of
interest rates at the next Fed board
meeting. Uh J pal more more or less
telegraphed that when he was out west
recently at the Federal Reserve meeting
out in uh out out west. So I think that
u the markets are anticipating a 25
basis point cut. Uh JPL is pretty good
about telegraphing what he's going to do
and then following through on it. So I
would be surprised if we don't get a 25
basis point cut and very surprised if we
get a much bigger cut.
>> Fair enough, David. I mean, what is
overall your read on both the threat of
credibility of this institution and the
independence of this institution? How
fragile or not is it?
>> Well, the Federal Reserve is one of the
most respected institutions in
Washington. I'd say the perhaps the two
most respected institutions overall in
Washington might be the Supreme Court
over many many years and the Federal
Reserve since 1913. And I think that
both institutions have their ch
challenges from time to time. But I
think that their strength and their
reputation over a period of time will
stand them in in goodstead. So I don't
think the Federal Reserve is going to
fall apart over this. The Federal
Reserve is very important. Its
independence is very important. But I
think in the end uh this will probably
get resolved in some type of settlement
or some type of uh outofc court process.
So I don't think it's going to be a big
surprise how this gets resolved. And I
think in the end when the president
makes a decision about who the new Fed
chair is going to be, I think the
markets will be relieved to see who he's
picking. And I suspect he will make some
announcement in the not too distant
future. And that person presumably will
lower interest rates as the president
has indicated he wants the next Fed
chair to do. And David, the list of
candidates is very credible so far. At
least attitudes towards markets don't
seem to have shifted too much. Stocks
are very close to all-time highs. Credit
spreads are still incredibly tight. From
the people you speak to, the large
investors from the outside looking in
internationally looking at the United
States, have you noted a shift in
attitudes at all? Or have things settled
down?
around the world. Most investors
understand that the president is
somebody that likes to shake things up
and he will do unconventional things and
the markets have gotten used to that. Uh
the markets are very high right now and
therefore the markets are not all that
upset about what the president's doing u
because they understand that's his motus
operandi. So I think that the fact the
markets are so high shows that people
are not afraid of what the president's
doing. In many cases people think what
he's doing is is a good idea. In some
cases people don't. But I don't really
think the markets are are running away
from him and I don't think the markets
are falling apart because of what he's
now doing in a number of areas like the
Intel uh matter or or the Lisa Cook
matter. They'll get resolved in some
manner that I don't think is going to be
too disruptive on the markets.
>> David, we're looking forward to the next
episode of Bloomberg Wealth. Of course,
it airs tonight. I understand you sat
down with the Troll Price CEO, Robert
Sharps. He spoke to you about active
versus passive management. He also has a
major stake in the future of the city
that is dear to your heart, the city of
Baltimore. Can you walk us through the
discussion that you two had?
>> Sure. Uh, Robert Sharps runs Troll
Price, which is about a $1.6 trillion
asset management company. It's basically
more actively managed than passively
managed. And they've done quite well
over many, many years. Uh I should point
out that he's a sponsor of the Baltimore
Orioles which I'm a principal owner of.
So I have a partial uh feeling towards
uh his company and I should disclose
that. But he's done a very good job of
working his way up from being an analyst
there and a fund manager to being the
CEO and the company's done pretty well
under his management. So I think it's a
company that many people put their 401k
money in and other types of money into
their uh their their funds and I think
they've done reasonably well from what I
understand.
>> Full disclosure, David, we're still
waiting for baseball tickets. Where are
they? What happened? I thought we were
gonna have a big get together. Bloomberg
surveillance on the road coming down.
You were going to host us. What
happened?
>> Well, um I'm waiting for next season. Um
this season didn't work out quite as
well as I would have predicted. Uh
injuries are a bigger problem than I
anticipated, but uh I'm going to try to,
you know, get people not to be so
injured next year and maybe I'll, you
know, show them some batting tips or
pitching tips myself.
>> I'm sure they're looking forward to
that, David. Appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. Thank you very much, David
Rubenstein there of the Carlile Group.
You can watch the latest episode of
David's show, Wealth, on Bloomberg
tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern time.
>> Sorry, I just imagine David also
becoming like a a personal trainer to
them, too, trying to make sure that
they're not getting injured. I hope that
for David and the Orioles, too.
>> Too many games.
>> They play so many games. It's
ridiculous.
>> It is. But, I mean, hey, the schedule
demands it. Media rights are hot.
Everyone's bidding it up. So, uh I don't
know if that's changing any
>> It's the same with football, isn't it?
Anyway, let's round up the price action
so far this morning. Things have been
okay. Equities are all right. We're down
about a tenth of 1%. We've seen a move
in bond yields. I know why people are so
concerned about the future of the
Federal Reserve. We can all agree
central bank independence is vital. It
anchors inflation expectations. It
contributes to lower interest rates. Got
all of that. But at the moment, things
are okay. No drama on Wall Street. Even
with the drama in Washington,
>> things are okay because we just frankly
don't know how this is going to play
out. This is likely going to be a court
case. It's likely going to take a very
long time, months if not more than
years. There's so much uncertainty and
we've seen what's happened when this
market trades on what it thinks is going
to happen with this White House. April
2nd, a great example of that. Things
sell off and then they come roaring
back. So why make that mistake twice?
>> Danny, appreciate your time. It's good
to see you as always. Long morning for
you. We appreciate it. Coming up
tomorrow, Ian Steely of JP Morgan, the
former chief of staff to the former vice
president Mike Pence. We'll speak to
Mike Shaw, Alexman of Barclays, and Matt
Lazelli of Deutsche Bank from New York
City. Thank you for choosing Bloomberg
TV. This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]